---
layout: post
title: Is it possible to be just friends with beautiful women? Sometimes a girl sneaks into my room at night to sleep with me. Just sleeping no sex. I think I love her but she just wants to be friends.
date: 2017-05-23
---

<p>Society and our own minds impose the need for boundaries on us. The boundaries don’t really exist, if we choose to ignore them they go away, to be replaced by other boundaries.</p><p>For example, a “just friends” relationship is threatened when she jumps into bed with you. That’s a situation that can easily lead into sex, you just choose to not “go there.”</p><p>The answer to your situation is romance. You gently blurring the lines between friends and lovers, thereby creating new dynamics to your relationship.</p><p>You’re trying to be too overt, trying to change the nature of your friendship overnight. Doesn’t ever work very well. You need to be a little sneaky, take positive action to reframe your friendship with baby steps.</p><p>Don’t tell her you love her while she’s lying in the bed with you. Instead tell her how easy it would be for her to just take charge of you. You wouldn’t be able to resist, you’d be powerless as she steals the pleasure she wants from you over and over again.</p><p>In other words just make it fun. Take the situation you’re in, turn it on it’s head, and just pretend. Lying in bed with someone is like going to Narnia with them, you’re in this magical place where time and space and responsibilities don’t exist. Take her on a journey.</p><p>Let her break the physical boundaries of your friendship first, but what you can do is to do things that <i>don’t</i> break the physical boundaries of your friendship, but do them in a romantic way. Touch is a wonderful language to communicate in.</p>
