---
layout: post
title: What is soul? What happens to it after death?
date: 2017-10-02
---

<p>The soul is the reduced essence of consciousness, the absolute minimum amount of “stuff” required to carry you on as a unique being between lifetimes. Souls breathe life into physical bodies. Without them you wouldn’t see quite the diversity of personality in humans and animals that you see.</p><p>The soul is non-physical and abstract, much like consciousness itself. A word I’ve seen used for the realm of non-extant things is the ‘Unmanifest’. It’s not a spiritual concept I often work directly with, but the Unmanifest also holds areas like Heaven and Hell, and it’s where God lives.</p><p>As an abstract thing, the soul is indestructible. I believe that we have counterparts in the Unmanifest that carry on existing after we die, through the sheer force of will. We’ll call this your ‘ghost’. The ghost is non-physical, but it is not abstract. It has a form, specifically, the form your disembodied will gives it.</p><p>Afterlives are limited in duration. Your will to exist can only persist for so long. Eventually your non-physical existence will ‘fall apart’ and your consciousness will reduce down to your soul.</p><p>I’ve been kicking around different mechanisms for reincarnation. How is it chosen which body you inhabit next? Do humans ‘stay human’?</p><p>At any rate, your consciousness, reduced to essence, gets shunted off into a new body. It’s a bit like falling asleep, you dream for awhile then wake up in a new world. You come in with some memories of your past life, but they’re forgotten fairly quickly, as the memories don’t really match what’s relevant to you now.</p>
