---
layout: post
title: Have you created your own religious or spiritual belief system? What is it?
date: 2017-12-18
---

<p>I have. It started with the ideas of Dr. David R. Hawkins. I studied his material in depth. But I could never really accept them as truth. Too many things didn’t add up. As I investigated, I eventually came up with my own ideas based on his that he doesn’t ever really talk about. Eventually his ideas lost prominence and now I deal purely with my own ideas, only bringing him up when I need to explain my thoughts to others and I need a reference point.</p><p>If you think about spiritual beliefs and systems they exist on a continuum from the really really meta to what I call “narrative dogmas.” Narrative dogmas are the easiest to understand but also easiest for the intelligent person to invalidate in his head. They involve things like the Jesus story.</p><p>Further along you have things like allegorical truth, which if you understand that then it makes the narrative dogma aspects much easier to stomach. In theory no sufficiently smart person would be able to accept silly ideas like Jesus turning water into wine at face value, but when you read into the allegorical value of the story there’s a lot more intellectual substance.</p><p>Further up there’s the mystical aspects. This is when you start to experience spiritual truth directly instead of through generated narrative artifacts. Any Christian who prays sufficiently is going to start having mystical experiences that they will then need to integrate into their mind and being. This is where spirituality integrates with being.</p><p>Most “spiritual-but-not-religious” types do not bother with allegory or narrative dogma, they just skip straight to the mystic aspects and proceed upward from there. Unless you’re really really into spirituality, you’re going to get very far in your mystic search, you’ll confirm to yourself that the world is bigger than you can understand, then call it a day and get back to your mundane lifestyle.</p><p>Further along, there’s the cultural aspects. This is where my credential text, “Atheism is just another branch of Christianity” really starts to make sense. This is the level where basic motivations take hold. Your most fundamental values, these things are going to be highly similar to the people you grew up around. This stuff informs your spirituality in a big way. At this level, there’s no such thing as belief anymore, nobody’s asking you to believe in things you don’t want to believe in.</p><p>Finally, there’s meta-truth. This is the level at which I want to create a spiritual tradition. What is truth that is above culture, above mysticism, above allegory, above narrative? I’ve developed a system of logic for thinking about such things, what I now need is a map for people to follow that will take them up the spiritual ‘ladder’ to the meta so they can play in the same field that I do.</p><p>I’m not entirely sure whether I’ll need a narrative dogma. It does seem to make mysticism easier in certain ways. But it seems to set up barriers that have to be taken down again later.</p><p>Anyway coming up with a followable map for others to access my spiritual understandings with is on my long-term game plan. But the bones for a new system are there, I’m slowly refining it with each Quora post.</p>
