---
layout: post
title: Is the only way to have chickens and eggs by designing them simultaneously and creating either or? Can anything really come first?
date: 2017-06-15
---

<p>The first thing ever could not have been designed. That would require a mind to design it.</p><p>Minds have to <i>evolve</i> first. Things evolve in homeostatic environments, which have to spontaneously <i>emerge</i> from non-homeostatic ones.</p><p>This is a concept that expands outwards as well as inwards. If you look at islands, they typically develop really weird and strange, and unique ecosystems compared to the continent. Islands are a more homeostatic environment than continents are.</p><p>Order spontaneously emerges from chaos. From order emerges self-direction. From self-direction emerges agency. From agency emerges consciousness. From consciousness emerges society. From society emerges civilization.</p><p>Only consciousness can design. Eggs are at the level of self-direction. Chickens are at the level of consciousness.</p><p>Science hasn’t quite figured out the precise conditions in which life arose, but it has a pretty good idea of what it took.</p><p>You can work the concept back from even chaos, and forward from civilization, I don’t have good words to describe “pre-chaos,” but it’s interesting to think about. Forward from civilization gets a little murky, at some point you’re just describing the history of the world. I wanted to say “technology” but that just doesn’t sound right.</p><p>But the idea here is that things spontaneously self-organize given an environment and some rules. You can play with this on your computer, the most illustrative example is Conway’s Game of Life. Simple rules can drive incredibly complicated behaviors. Complicated rules can give rise to life. And a planet, even one relatively small like Earth, is amazingly complicated.</p><p>But not just any rules and any environment can give rise to self-organization. They have to be the right rules. The political system we in the Anglosphere enjoy evolved on the British Isles, conditions just weren’t right for that sort of thing on the continent or in any other part of the world. Political systems are perfect examples of self-organization out of chaos. When conditions are right, something special is born.</p>
