---
layout: post
title: Is eternal oblivion possible?
date: 2017-09-29
---

<p>As with most such things, the answer depends on how you define it.</p><p>My current worldview holds that oblivion is existentially close to the state of being <i>oblivious</i>. What happens after you die? Most traditions hold to some kind of afterlife, many also allow for a ghostly existence on Earth for a relatively short time. Ghosts are generally portrayed as being unaware that they’re dead. One game I played had you solving puzzles involving getting dead spirits to realize that they’re dead before you can send them along to the afterlife.</p><p>I do not believe that it’s possible for consciousness to actually be destroyed. If God could be said to be farming something, the only thing that would be worth creating an entire universe for is consciousness. He obviously has all the matter and resources he could ever want, it’s consciousness that’s hard to make.</p><p>Consciousness does not always have to be self-aware. In fact, awareness and agency existed for a long, long time before self-awareness ever did, and there are varying degrees of self-awareness. In this world, you can be in a coma or a dream state, existing and having experiences, but not self-aware.</p><p>So oblivion is possible even though God doesn’t want to lose consciousness, by allowing it to lie dormant. It can go on as long as is needed.</p><p>Consciousness can be reduced to <i>essence</i>, this is what a soul is. At some point after you die and your afterlife concludes, you get reduced down to an essence and get punted into a new material body. Nothing you’d recognize from your previous life carries over into this new existence.</p><p>This satisfies most beings’ “death wish.” I’ve met people before who were perfectly aware that they are reincarnated beings, and just wanted it all to end. Very difficult to satisfy this wish if the above definition of oblivion isn’t sufficient for them. The only option is to just carry on until you snap out of it.</p><p>The wish for oblivion mostly stems from the perceived lack of meaning to be found in one’s existence. If you take a few steps back and get a bird’s eye view of the situation, you can see that the person is finding meaning in their death wish. It’s just not pleasant meaning. Just like how consciousness is always expanding steadily, everybody always is finding some kind of meaning to their existence.</p><p>The only way for this to not be true is if the environment literally cannot contain their full being. But this also is always happening to everybody, it results in the slow growth of consciousness.</p>
