---
layout: post
title: How do you know if you are spiritually enlightened?
date: 2017-05-18
---

<p>In order to know, you’d have to a) know what enlightenment is, b) care enough to observe someone hard enough to deduce their inner life, and c) weigh your observations against what you <i>think</i> enlightenment is and continuously keep observing the person to be able to make a rigorous judgment.</p><p>I consider myself enlightened. This consideration came <i>years</i> after of working with material from 3 people commonly considered enlightened. Osho, U. G. Krishnamurti, and Dr. David R Hawkins. There was a light sprinkling of George Gurdjieff, who knows or cares whether he was enlightened. (I never got through <i>Beelzebub,</i> though <i>Meetings</i> was enjoyable)</p><p>Of all of these, Hawkins has the best, most rigorous framework for understanding enlightenment. But after two years of working through his material, I still had more questions than answers.</p><p>Hawkins uses the artifice of a <b>scale</b> of consciousness. This is a powerful idea. In theory you know that certain things you do bring you closer to enlightenment, other things take you away from it, but Hawkins lasered in on that basic fact and drove an entire framework out of it.</p><p>And he even worked out a semi-rigorous <b>method</b> for determining where you’re at on the scale! For anyone accustomed to the utterly constant <i>vagueness</i> of everything spiritual, this was like crack for me. I couldn’t get enough of it. For at least a year, I applied consciousness calibration to <b>everything</b>.</p><p>Of course including me. Hawkins had a bunch of rules for consciousness calibration. I of course broke all those rules, just to see what would happen. My first calibration of myself was in the 700 range, well past enlightenment, which is at 600. Hawkins tells you not to calibrate yourself.</p><p>Being interested in the process rather than in really figuring out my own “CQ”, I just kept calibrating myself over time. I carried myself past the 1000 mark, Hawkins’ pinnacle of human achievement, the level of Jesus and the Buddha, and eventually found myself in the billions.</p><p>Yes, it was utterly meaningless. But I learned something really valuable. Spirit is ultimately a realm without definition. You want to ask somebody whether they’re enlightened or not, first you have to define what enlightenment <b>means</b> before you can come to a useful answer.</p><p>This is why I don’t really do psychedelics. Oh it’s on my bucket list for sure, but I’m not awfully excited by the possibilities of DMT or LSD. Experience that is hard to translate to others or define or make rigorous doesn’t really interest me. We are beings that spend a very short time here, when we’re done, we go back to the world without any sort of restrictions whatsoever. An acid trip is an easy trip round the block there. Show me something I can <b>use</b>.</p><p>So when I was doing calibration, I’m not going to say I made a lot of mistakes, but I did eventually realize that a scale can only really approximate the true complexity of being-ness. Turns out reducing all of consciousness evolution to a number is over-simplifying after all!</p><p>So is the question of whether someone is enlightened or not. Spend enough time with the concept, and Heaven and Hell start looking like fun diversions.</p>
