---
layout: post
title: Do we really need spiritual gods and religions? What would happen if we found out that a religious god does not exist?
date: 2017-10-10
---

<p>You need <i>something</i> to organize that part in your brain that wonders “how does everything work” and also is painfully aware that you can’t ever really know. That something, we’ve decided to call belief.</p><p>Not 50 years ago, humans still didn’t have the Internet, so they couldn’t go online and share all their little ideas. They had to get ideas from their parents. And their parents had to get them from their parents. And so on and so forth.</p><p>An entire industry sprung up around the maintenance of these ideas. Sometimes this industry was better at adapting to the changing needs of “the flock” than others. Sometimes people hated these ideas and went off with a bunch of other people to go live according to the ideas they thought were right.</p><p>The study of religion is the study of human nature. The need to organize the Great Unknown is truly endemic, no known prehistoric humans, no known ancient humans, no known classical humans, no known modern humans have been found that completely lacked a spiritual impulse.</p><p>Sure, you can hold your hands to your ears and sing very loudly to drown out the uncomfortable exhortations for you to accept religion in your heart. You can proclaim loudly to the world that you are atheist / agnostic / freethinker / whatever materialists are calling themselves these days.</p><p>But you’re going to get drawn back to the transcendent eventually. The second you ask “what does something mean,” is the second you start a spiritual inquiry. Wanting to know “what is it all for,” is <i>precisely</i> what your religious forebears wanted to answer, and the only truth they had was clothed in religion.</p><p>Because the mind isn’t satisfied with materialist answers. It never could be. It always wants more. We want our lives to <i>mean something</i>. We want our actions to have <i>relevance</i>. Relevance to what? To mean what? This is how you start questioning. And you don’t have the answers, you can’t. You were born a blank slate.</p><p>So you need ideas. Ideas to help you categorize the things you see and attach meaning-values to them. Ideas to work with and accept as true or discard or call evil. Ideas to help you shape who you are. People who throw away the spiritual, who throw away the religious, who throw away the things they think are stupid beliefs held at best by dullards, at worst by people who are trying to control you, are truly missing out on the wonderful splendor that real belief can bring to your life.</p><p>Belief drives people to do amazing things. Think about it very carefully, can you be great without belief? Can you do great things? I’d argue that you can’t. Even just getting your spiritual house in order frees up so much energy you won’t believe how much you can accomplish.</p>
