---
layout: post
title: What led to your spiritual awakening?
date: 2017-12-12
---

<p>Hi Narinder, been awhile!</p><p>That’s a pretty good question. I consider my spiritual awakening to have happened in my late twenties, probably about 6 years ago. I was exploring a spiritual technique called muscle testing, which usually responds “without agency,” in that it’s like using a magic 8 ball. You don’t really expect the magic 8 ball to start messing with you.</p><p>Well, mess with me it did, and so began a far more intensive spiritual inquiry than I’d ever done before.</p><p>Now that I think back on it, I had done bordering-on-absurd amounts of visualization meditation, including chakra openings. I was quite in tune with my inner energetic body. This turned out to be really important, as it made communication with my inner spirit guide far, far easier. I could just close my eyes and treat anything I felt that wasn’t ‘normal’ as communication. So we had an amazing bandwidth, punctuated by the muscle test itself, which provided a solidly reassuring ‘hard answer’.</p><p>In reality none of the answers were ‘hard’, I had to think carefully about everything I asked so that I could be sure of what I was getting back. I made a big deal about stopping muscle testing perhaps a year later but in reality it had stopped really being useful months before. The muscle test simply allowed my conscious mind to relax and accept it as real.</p><p>Nowadays all I have to do is visualize doing a test and I already know how it’s going to respond. Again this is an extension of “getting to know my inner energy body” work that started long before the awakening and continued long after.</p>
