---
layout: post
title: Are you a spiritual hypocrite?
date: 2017-05-08
---

<p>I try very hard not to be.</p><p>Quackery has a long tradition in America. So-called medicine men would roam the country visiting small farming towns and villages and ply the ignorance of the yokels. John D. Rockefeller’s father was just such a quack.</p><p>In the 40s, a prominent radio evangelist by the name of Curtis H. Springer obtained a patch of land in the desert and set up a little retreat where they provided quack therapeutic treatments and asked for donations. You can watch his last media appearance:</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/91rdB5fDMaA?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="91rdB5fDMaA" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/91rdB5fDMaA/0.jpg');"></div><p>If you watch closely, you can see the rhetorical techniques he has been employing throughout his life to make detractors look silly. And then you realize that he’s just harmless, and yeah, you are being pretty silly by trying to shut up Curtis H. Springer. He wasn’t doing anybody any harm by setting up shop way out in the desert, and unless he’s lying about never charging anyone and only taking donations, why bother him?</p><p>So hypocrisy in spirituality doesn’t really bother me all that much. Any leader of people has to be responsive to the needs of those people, who cares if the spirituality is logical or ‘real’ or not. Quack doctors were by necessity great entertainers and they brought fun and laughter to areas where there was little to laugh about.</p><p>That said, I don’t want to be a hypocrite because logic and rationality is actually really important to me. I want to make sure my actions and thoughts and feelings are matching my words. If leading people was important to me then I’d probably be a hypocrite because people all want things that aren’t rational and I’d eventually realize that the easiest way is to just lie about it. But it isn’t.</p><p>I’m not morally opposed at all to it.</p>
