---
layout: post
title: What is the best spiritual teaching for someone who is an atheist and rational?
date: 2017-08-01
---

<p>Well, the first thing I would ask you to do is to clarify your goals. It does neither of us any good for me to just start recommending materials without any clue as to what’s going on in your head. Do you want to build a connection with the ineffable? Or do you just want smaller goals like more mental clarity and less chatter?</p><p>I have the journey I started on when I was an atheist kid looking to understand religion and spirituality. What I did was I sought out other people who actually believed in this stuff, listened to their stories, and the ones that seemed to have their heads screwed on straight the most, I let them try to teach me.</p><p>You might want to stick to printed materials, I don’t know how seriously you want to take your new spiritual journey. I worked with plenty of those, and there’s lots of mindsets out there to attune to. One of my favorite things to do when I was a kid was to go to the bookstore or library and pick out books at random to read. If it grabbed me, I took it home and devoured it.</p><p>I don’t think there’s any one “best” teaching for anyone. Only lots of teachings that will inform you in small but important ways. I have to say that the teacher I found the most “rational” is Dr. David R. Hawkins. He was a successful psychiatrist before he became a spiritual teacher and researcher.</p><p>That said, his teachings are not fully scientifically rigorous, and that’s kinda the whole point. You’re dealing with spirit, not with science. If you don’t want to deal with things that are hard to believe in, stick to the empirical. The other problem is that his printed materials can be difficult to understand. If you stick with it though you can find them very enlightening.</p><p>As for spiritual practice, it’s hard to go wrong with meditation. I personally like visualization meditation. Just search for guided meditations online and pick out something that appeals to you. None of it is any better than any other. If you don’t like one, look around for another. It’s way more important that you resonate with any particular spiritual practice than for it to be “right.” There’s no such thing as right in this world.</p>
