---
layout: post
title: What are the cons of having a high level of understanding people?
date: 2017-06-24
---

<p>This question made me laugh, so of course I have to answer it.</p><p>I’ve known a lot of smart people in my day, lots of people who are smart at lots of things. It takes a long time to learn about things, and even after you spend the time and learn the thing, you haven’t learned everything about that thing.</p><p>People are no different. I know a guy who is really good at Tinder dating. He had a fairly well polished dating system that he had refined over the course of several years.</p><p>He thought he could help me out, I was hung up on a lady and having a tough time getting over her. I wasn’t yet at that point where I wanted to. He started to tell me about his system.</p><p>He was only a few sentences in before I started to get his drift. He had basically beat his head against dating and women until he finally learned all the little things you have to do to get laid. He didn’t know <i>why</i> they worked, just that they did.</p><p>Tinder was a perfect platform for him because he could just try over and over and over again with comparatively little time investment.</p><p>He takes the same hard-headed approach to business and to life. The world sucks, just keep grinding until you get what you want. The sort of thing that’s fun to watch romanticized in movies. In real life you can’t help but be sorry for the guy.</p><p>He’s earned a certain understanding of people and the world. It works for him. It’s gonna make him rich one day. But I wouldn’t want his life.</p>
