---
layout: post
title: Does feminism have a responsibility to fight for gender equality across the board, even in ways that equalize female privilege?
date: 2017-04-28
---

<p>This question misunderstands radical activism and why people choose that path in life.</p><p>Being an activist is not fun. It’s like being poor and black in America, not coincidentally another big source of radical activists. You’re going to do whatever you can to glorify your existence, but ultimately you’re not living life for yourself, you’re living it for the next generation.</p><p>As you grow up, you normally get a choice of what do you want to do with your life and why you want to do it. When you’re downtrodden you don’t get that choice. Your choice is to service the good, strong, virtuous people in your life because your life is meaningless.</p><p>Of course, it’s not true, you have an alternate path. Activism. Fighting for your brothers and sisters that are downtrodden like you. Whipping up anger and pent-up desire and directing it at the gluttonous establishment, living off the fruit of your labors.</p><p>If you read about the so-called first and second-wave feminists, you get struck by their sheer bravery. But if you asked them, they wouldn’t call themselves brave. You can only at facing pure mortal danger as normal if you do it all the time.</p><p>So, whatever, you might say. Those days are over. Wrong. Things have gotten <i>better</i>, but they’re certainly not over. First of all the fight has gone global. All over the world, women get their lives ruined with battery acid.</p><p>In contrast, we have the first world problems of men who find it difficult to get a date because they’re having to deal with so-called X-wave feminism, which is so far away from “real” feminism that there’s obviously no point in it anymore, right?</p><p>In the second, women are <i>still</i> marginalized, right here, in the US! They are <b>not</b> superior! How, you might ask? Well, go ask the feminists. Women who are still so angry at being downtrodden that they are willing to band together with people they otherwise have nothing in common with in order to help them out, in service of future generations.</p><p>When’s the last time you banded together with someone you had nothing in common with for a common goal? Were you playing a video game?</p><p>So, in short, power comes from the willingness to organize, and the willingness to organize comes from wanting something badly enough to override individual priorities, and that mainly comes from actually being downtrodden.</p><p>If you were really being marginalized, you’d be willing to find more than a scattered gaggle of yahoos online to commiserate over virtual beers with. You’d have a real movement with real staying power that could accomplish real things.</p><p>Instead we have MGTOW.</p>
