---
layout: post
title: Is there something wrong with me for preferring foreign men over the men from my country?
date: 2017-07-30
---

<p>I personally would never judge you for your feelings about your current dating pool. It has also been my experience that the local men in many countries are traditional, boorish and boring. It’s really not their fault, nobody ever taught them how to act. The Internet taught you what love should be, but it really can’t teach men how to actually go about it.</p><p>Dating foreigners is like playing the slots though. You have to keep putting the best parts of yourself in so that you can hopefully win big. When I traveled abroad women literally threw themselves at me. Unfortunately the same reason you don’t like local men is the same reason I had a real tough time finding love with any girls I met there. The cultural differences are just too huge to surmount.</p><p>I think if you want to find success dating foreign men, you need to learn how to a) stroke their egos, and b) realize that you are going to be the one to learn a new lifestyle and world, they’re not going to learn yours. I am very mildly interested in other cultures, and I’ve come to find that my mild interest is way more than most people who travel’s.</p><p>So everything you think you know about life and dating and success, you’ll have to unlearn in order to make room for a new way of life. The best case scenario is that he takes you away from the family you’ve known your entire life and brings you into a new one in which you may not even like any of them, and they might not like you.</p>
