---
layout: post
title: Materialism posits that nothing exists except physical matter. Consciousness, among other things, is immaterial, &amp; thus cannot be seen or measured physically, so it&#39;s either consciousness does not exist, or materialism is false. Which is it?
date: 2017-11-22
---

<p>Consciousness isn’t even the easiest thing you can disprove materialism with.</p><p>The world is filled with things that humans built. These things are built partly with matter, and partly with ideas. Some of these things are more idea than matter, some of them are more matter than idea. But all things that humans deal with are at least part idea.</p><p>When you look at a chair, you immediately think it’s function is to sit on it. But a thing’s function isn’t anything intrinsic to the thing. Does the chair’s function, to sit in, actually exist? It’s not a material thing, this purpose is.</p><p>When you bring this up to materialists, they start quibbling so hard you think they should turn it into a national sport. They want to dream up categories of existence, forgetting that the whole point of materialism is to <i>define existence</i>.</p><p>To actually live in the world materialists define is to sink into a hell of not knowing what anything is, because you need to find physical referents for everything. Ideas are verboten. Trying to get around it by saying that ideas are physical manifestations of brain waves is hand-wavy in the extreme.</p><p>The study of logic purports to weigh ideas against each other so as to ascertain truth. You’re going to get a pretty piss-poor, useless version of logic if your rule for what’s true is simply, “what reflects the physical world better.”</p>
