---
layout: post
title: Everything in this universe can be defined in relative terms except the relationship between God, the creator, and His creations as “one to one”. Everything else goes by a “many to many” relationship among the creations. What do you think?
date: 2017-09-16
---

<p>That it’s an interesting way of applying software development concepts to spirituality.</p><p>A relational database is defined by <i>relations</i>, the data has more dimension than you can capture in a flat file. You need a relational database management system in order to work usefully with relational data. If it was just flat data, you can operate on it with pure map / reduce functions. Operations on a relational database involve flattening the structure using JOIN statements because otherwise you don’t have everything you need.</p><p>Relativity concerns <i>context</i>, the difference between something being relative and it being objective is that when it is objective, the context is shared between observers. For instance, three people might each have a subjective interpretation of an event that happened, but the objective facts are provided by the security camera recording.</p><p>A person’s personal relationship with God is theirs and theirs alone, there is no shared context that could ever make it objective. The Catholic Church works really hard to provide shared context for spirituality, that could presumably provide for spiritual objectivity. Unfortunately the effort is doomed from the very beginning. Even after 2000 years of thinking really hard about spirituality they can’t escape their own dogmas and so the spirituality offered by the Church is <i>de facto</i> subjective.</p><p>Not that their effort isn’t productive or interesting, but the level of effort they can put into it could never ever actually scale that mountain. Spirituality is <b>vast</b>. Simply defining deity is a task for the ages. Monotheism is an easy way out but the Catholics jumped right back into polytheism with the Trinity. Good luck rigorously defining even what God is.</p><p>One maxim to keep in mind is that God is “all things to all people.” God is both the mean, vindictive son of a bitch that turned the people of an entire town into pillars of salt for defying him, and the gentle being that ensures that every soul gets a real shot at salvation. Whatever you need God to be for you, God will provide.</p><p>So God isn’t really the one-to-one absolute monolith you’re imagining him as. God is ever-shifting, ever-moving. He’s above even many-to-many. God is <b>both</b> absolute <i>and</i> relative. One-to-one, many-to-many, and the manys have manys of their own, and God is all of that too.</p>
