---
layout: post
title: How do I stop one way conversations?
date: 2017-07-06
---

<p>If this is happening only one out of every ten matches you get, I’d say that’s a darn good rate.</p><p>What I’ve found is that people are either invested in conversations or they aren’t, and not carrying their weight by asking questions themselves or contributing to the discussion on an intellectual or emotional level clearly indicates that they haven’t yet made the decision to invest yet.</p><p>So you need to sell them on you. The way you do this is by being flashy and inventive. Show them personality, not interest. Lots of girls are absolutely swimming in the interest of boring guys, but don’t have any from guys who have interesting life perspectives.</p><p>If you’re too young to have any of those, then you can do what all the other kids in your position do, and make shit up. Just say whatever is on the top of your head.</p><p>If that sounds too dangerous, try to instead work on your questions / answers. If she’s not getting invested, then you’re not asking the right questions. Some women are locked up tighter than Fort Knox, but even they will give you hints of their own inner personality.</p><p>A good way to get started is to ask about what kinds of movies, tv shows, or music she’s been watching or listening to lately. Don’t just ask what she likes, that invites a hopelessly generic answer. Make sure all your questions go somewhere. People hate it when you probe them about their lives, but they love it when you drill down into what exactly it is they love about Game of Thrones. And their emotional reactions and investment in fictional media is often much greater than their investment in their lives, especially when you’re young.</p>
