---
layout: post
title: Reviewing your last decade, can you say reality was subjective for you?
date: 2017-08-16
---

<p>You always bring me the most interesting questions, Narinder!</p><p>So, the definition I use for reality is “that which doesn’t change when you aren’t looking at it.” Reality can be <i>personal</i>, in that my reality can be different than yours, but it’s always <i>objective</i>, in that things like rigor and logic apply to it.</p><p>People bandy about the idea that reality can turn on your will, just believe it and it will happen. And sure, you can think about it that way. If that’s what you want to do, I won’t get in your way, charge forth and define your own reality, that’s what it’s there for.</p><p>But I’m a civilized seeker, I want rules and constraints. One of those constraints is, I don’t <b>want</b> reality to just bend to my will. That’s a foolish thing to want. Back in my Wicca days my High Priest always would say that words have power and would relate stories where lack of precision or saying things out of anger would cause something very literal, therefore undesirable, to happen. Like having an evil genie at your command. The wish he grants is never the one you actually had.</p><p>I want reality to be a nice, safe sandbox for me to play in. I want it to be exactly what it is. I don’t need non-physical entities other than God polluting it, and even God just has a supporting role.</p><p>My reality is my own personal laboratory for exploring <i>meaning</i>. What do things mean to people, and why? I figure if I can master meaning, then I can be truly powerful.</p>
