---
layout: post
title: As a senior engineer without a significant CS or SE education, how can you shape your professional path to keep climbing the slope of big and challenging technical problems?
date: 2017-08-11
---

<p>I suppose I’m at senior level. I think I’m at SEIII on my company’s payscale so I guess that makes me senior, though I’m not a team lead. (yet)</p><p>My answer to you is to go work for a startup. They’ve got hard problems for days. And months. And years. Work there until you’ve earned your chops.</p><p>Then go work for a big established company as an architect. Big companies like startup guys because they’re usually way more capable than the drones they usually hire. You’ll make a ton more money too.</p><p>If you’re not a senior and you’re just getting started, the easiest way to pay your dues is at a big company. I worked at Panasonic for like 6 weeks before I jumped ship to work at a small marketing company. I was prepared to put in more time but I guess I didn’t need to.</p><p>Without a degree just means you have to be hungrier and more pragmatic. You can’t pick and choose your opportunities. Any senior developer has a lot of clout, but the ones that are CS educated are really sought-after.</p><p>You’re not looking for more money, you’re looking for more challenge. This means my usual advice doesn’t really hold, to just keep bouncing around until you are happy with your comp.</p><p>Instead you need to find the hardest work you can find and be willing to take pay cuts in order to work on them. Learn how to describe your approach to solving problems. The capacity to sell yourself beats a CS degree any day of the week and Sunday twice.</p>
