---
layout: post
title: Is my soul the third party? Is my soul my consciousness?
date: 2017-10-02
---

<p>The soul is consciousness turned in on itself.</p><p>Consciousness is an abstract thing. What this means is that it does not have a material referent. You can analogize this to software running on a computer. What is the real-world referent of the running program? There is none, if you look at the machine itself doing the work there’s no way to understand what it’s actually doing.</p><p>Similarly, looking at brainwaves will never tell you what you’re actually thinking, nor will it reveal your preferences or wishes or beliefs. Where is all this stuff? It’s there, but it’s not there. It would be easier to work out the algorithm that the computer is running from watching the electrical voltage levels of the transistors in the CPU than it would be to figure out the depth of the things you’re thinking by examining your brain.</p><p>Where is personality? Where is intelligence? Where is preference? Where is identity?</p><p>These things are nowhere, they’re abstract concepts just like the calendar on your wall. Oh the paper and markings on the thing you’re calling a calendar is real, it’s the idea that the calendar encodes that’s abstract and only exists in the minds of humans. We have to constantly adjust the calendar to keep it relevant to humans, nobody told the Earth that it needs to move the same way all the time.</p><p>The soul is consciousness unconnected to any body, whether in the manifest world or in the ether.</p>
