---
layout: post
title: Can one truly a master OBE through meditation?
date: 2017-10-16
---

<p>There was a point in time where I <b>really</b> wanted OBE. I made several exit attempts a day. I wanted OBE more than I wanted telekinesis. I talked to people that did it and compared notes.</p><p>What I was after was an extremely vivid VR-like experience. I wanted to seriously master it and be able to apply all my analytical techniques to it. What I did not want was Yet Another Imaginative Spiritual Experience.</p><p>You see, all the spiritual experiences I’d had never felt <i>real</i>. If you’ve read a significant amount of my answers, you’d know that I consider something to be real if it sticks around when you stop putting mental energy into it. I could make a lot of interesting things happen by giving things mental energy, but it would all just go away if I stopped doing that. Worse, anything I made would feel <i>arbitrary</i> based on whatever weirdness my mind might be going through. If I was having the flu, I didn’t want the OBE to reflect that.</p><p>I wanted a way to have spiritual experiences that were unfiltered by my mind. I hit upon OBE as the key.</p><p>When I couldn’t have the sorts of experiences I was looking for, I slowly lost interest. Oh sure, I could have brief, abortive experiences of leaving my body, and if I’d wanted to, I could work on making those more vivid and “real.” But that wasn’t what I was after. I didn’t want yet another thing I had to work to believe in.</p><p>But it wasn’t to be. Turns out all spiritual experiences are created by your mind. In fact, the only kind of experience that you can have that isn’t is the material one that is presented to your brain through your senses.</p><p>That’s not to say that spiritual and/or psychic experiences are total bunk. They’re not. You can receive information from external channels. It’s just that the actual <b>experience</b> of that information is created for you by the mind.</p><p>With all that said, does experience meditating help out with OBE? Yeah. You want to focus on visualization. Visualization primes your brain to believe the things it imagines it seeing. If you keep doing it then eventually your brain will hit a tipping point where you’ll “run away” with the scenario and have something that feels like a daydream but is somewhat more real-seeming.</p><p>I’ve done this many, many times, but thought OBE was different somehow. It’s not really. It’s just a different kind of focus. Rather than diving inward, you want new environments to experience.</p><p>Once you’ve gotten the gist then you just keep doing it over and over again and the diversity of experiences you have will increase and they’ll get more vivid.</p>
