---
layout: post
title: Recently, I joined a software firm with a healthy salary and benefits, but I now don&#39;t feel comfortable there. Should I quit or try to continue?
date: 2017-05-12
---

<p>I started to write a long answer weighing the costs and benefits of conducting a job hunt while you already have one and then I spotted the one fact that outweighs all the other facts. <i>This is your first job</i>.</p><p>The fact of the matter is, you still need to pay your dues. If you quit your job now, and start another job hunt, then you will not be moving <b>up</b> in your field, you’ll almost certainly be moving <b>down</b>. You need to establish yourself in a field before you start picking and choosing who you want to work for.</p><p>It is <b>way</b> better to go looking for a job when you can put six months of industry experience than when you can put none, or God forbid, actually put down on a resume that you quit your first job after a month or so. This consideration far outweighs whether you are looking for a job when you already have one or not.</p><p>Yes that can mean putting in extra hours. Yes that means dealing with a less-than welcoming atmosphere.</p><p>Let me be clear about this, if it were me and I were trying to break into a field and getting my foot in the door meant working in a dingy windowless basement for 12 hours a day, I’d say you’re better off sucking it up and getting it done than you would just quitting and going to look for another door to put your foot in.</p><p>That said, I started looking for a job almost immediately after I started working one. I was commuting 40 miles and only being home on the weekends. And I hated my actual work. So I started calling recruiters as soon as I had a free minute. Took a few weeks but I soon had a much better job, with a much better salary, with a much better commute.</p><p>In short, you need to serve your <b>career</b> before you serve <b>yourself</b>. Because it’s easy to hurt your career and not do anything for yourself.</p>
