---
layout: post
title: If time ran linear, what comes between death and being reborn?
date: 2017-07-06
---

<p>First off, time running “linear” in a realm without physicality needs to be nailed down somewhat, because the more you think about it, the less sense it makes.</p><p>What creates time in this world is the march of causality. If you hit a cue ball against a rack of billiards balls, every event happens as a result of a previous event. The fact that everything interacts with everything makes for a continuity.</p><p>That continuity gets broken whenever there isn’t interaction. If the world between worlds doesn’t interact with the current world according to the same kind of physical rules, then the sense of time gets disconnected as well.</p><p>When you are asleep, your sense of time gets similarly blunted. You can spend ages dreaming or minutes, and you wake up the next day and barely feel the passage of time. You don’t feel it because the dream world going on in your head doesn’t have any causality interactions with the real world. The space between physical realms is a lot like dreamland in this sense. It doesn’t interact, so time doesn’t feel the same.</p><p>If you absolutely, had to have it so you <i>experienced</i> events at the same pace as you did when you were alive, after you die, then I imagine you wouldn’t get much time to do what is typically said you do after you die, reflect back on your life and learn lessons.</p><p>This post-death reflection used to give me a lot of problems. You see, there’s this ironclad rule that I’ve observed in all of existence, if anything related to beings could be said to be absolute, this would be it: Consciousness growth cannot be accelerated. There’s nothing you can do that will make it go any faster.</p><p>This flies in the face of one of my biggest teachers, Dr. David R. Hawkins. He insists that consciousness growth can go faster or even reverse. Yet, in all of my research, all of my investigations, I’ve not been able to find any way for consciousness growth to be accelerated. I’ve since come to understand that Hawkins just doesn’t have a full understanding of consciousness at it’s most fundamental level, leading to the error.</p><p>But this reflection period after death would seem to clearly break the rule. You see, it’s not just you that’s there in the afterlife. God is there too. With all the time in the world, and access to God, surely you’ll be able to come out of death way more conscious than you were before.</p><p>So one way I imagined to cut back on the reflection period is for you to ‘only be able to experience so much’ before you reincarnate. Having a real sense of time in the afterlife would seem to do the trick. But it doesn’t work. The more you think about it, the less sense it makes. It’s just a kludge, handwaving over the infinite.</p><p>Luckily I have a better solution. One even more weird and amazing.</p><p>That proximity to God does not have to necessarily make you more conscious. God is God, he can do whatever he wants, including make individual consciousnesses more or less conscious. We’re just fragments of his mind, after all. But God does not want carbon copy clones of himself, and that’s what happens when he takes charge of the evolution of individuals like that.</p><p>So instead he sees us with a mechanic’s eye, way more in-depth than we ever could ourselves, and is super-careful to not bulldoze over our delicate individualities.</p><p>The one thing God cannot do by himself is expand. Growth is denied to the thing which is defined as all possibilities. The entirety of his creation, all of us, together, create evolution in God. We lead the way for God to make even more possible.</p><p>It’s really just math. An individual cannot expand faster than God can see. All individuals, on the other hand, can create new dynamics that even God has not witnessed. Each individual has its own creation space, we call them our minds. The combinatorial explosion creates emergent behavior for God himself to discover and learn from, to use the parlance of computer science.</p><p>God is powerful enough to be all things to all people. But he cannot literally contain all <i>possibilities</i> of all people, if he’s purposefully operating on the edge of his abilities. And that’s what he does, all the time.</p><p>So yeah. When you’re dead, you basically run through the patterns of your life. God helps you understand them. You grow a little bit, but the lack of new input puts an ultimate limit on how much time you can spend there. As you mature spiritually, you can spend more time there. But it’s always a side show compared to living life at the fullest of our capabilities, and that can only happen in a physical realm with real limits that we have to overcome.</p>
