---
layout: post
title: Can God violate the logically impossible?
date: 2017-12-07
---

<p>Logic isn’t what you think it is. What you conceive of as an absolute bulwark against things you deem silly, is actually an emotional crutch leaned on by those who fancy themselves as smart.</p><p>Nothing is truly logically impossible. Not to something with truly unlimited resources. Let’s take the classic example, can God make a rock so big that He can’t lift it? Think about this for a second. How would God lift a rock? Any rock. With what body would He lift the rock?</p><p>Let’s say God made a rock and then moved it with a supernova. Did God move the rock or did the supernova?</p><p>This is what God thinks of your logic. Limited in ken to your ability to imagine things. All attempts to imagine a logically impossible situation for God fail when you realize that God is not physical and your brain is hopelessly mired in physical thinking.</p><p>There’s an argument against theism called <i>God of the gaps</i>. The way this proceeds is that as humans gain more and more capacity to understand and grow and change their environment, the “space” that God has to operate in gets that much smaller. 1000 years ago God created the Earth and all the creatures, today we know that the creatures on Earth evolved and that Earth itself is a product of celestial processes. So believers in God “must” retreat to other gaps in human knowledge.</p><p>This is an absolutely silly argument to any practitioner of mysticism that also chooses to organize their spirituality along single-deity lines. The still-extant gulfs in human understanding are still quite cavernous, while human arrogance still knows no bounds, and god-of-the-gaps is an argument proceeding from arrogance, not understanding.</p><p>If perfect determinism were true, then none of it matters anyway. Determinism could never be perfect, therefore there’s always going to be some space for free will and morality and uncertainty (God spaces) to operate, and humans are never going to be able to master all of it no matter how hard we try.</p>
