---
layout: post
title: Is a situation of choosing a religion using pure reason equivalent to the &#39;Buridan&#39;s ass&#39;? Why and how?
date: 2017-09-22
---

<p>You don’t choose religion, religion chooses you.</p><p>I’m about to take it off, but one of my credentials states that “Atheism is just a branch of Christianity.” but basically belief is just one component of religion, and when you look holistically at all that entails religion, people that grew up in Christian households but are atheist still share 90% of what makes them Christian with their compatriots.</p><p>You can choose your specific beliefs, but you can’t really pick your values, traditions, and culture. Atheists keep Christian values, still often celebrate Christmas, and still live in a world created by Christians.</p><p>The surest way I can think of to actually change religions is to marry outside your faith and move to a part of the world where theirs is the dominant faith. Slowly you’ll assimilate.</p><p>Thus, the decision of what religion to be is not really subject to reason at all.</p><p>Now whether you actually believe in that religion, that’s totally within your capability. Through force of belief, you could even do the unthinkable and actually convert. The closest real-world example I can think of is of Americans who choose fundamentalist Islam and go join ISIS. Through sheer stubbornness, they shed all their former trappings and really become a man of cloth of another faith.</p><p>Christians choosing to not believe in God? Child’s play. Reason and religion are like oil and water.</p>
