---
layout: post
title: What is the soul? Is it a combination of the heart and the mind?
date: 2017-12-05
---

<p>The heart is a colloquial designation for the emotional complex, whereas the mind is a colloquial designation for the ‘thinking’ complex. In reality both of these are abstract objects generated by the brain. I use ‘mind’ to refer to the entirety of the abstract patterns generated by the brain.</p><p>When we say a thing is abstract, what we mean is that it doesn’t exist in the material world. The brain is not a complete black box, you can poke and prod it and it will respond in predictable ways. But that’s a far cry from being able to, say, remove the part of your brain that contained your childhood memories.</p><p>The brain is way too interconnected for that to possibly work. What we think of when we consider our “childhood memories” and how that actually exists in the brain are totally and completely different. The brain and mind are about as different from each other as can be.</p><p>I carry this on to state that as different as the brain and the mind are from each other, the mind and consciousness itself are similarly different. Things don’t have to be just abstracted from the physical world, they can be abstracted from each other in the abstract world too. I do this all the time when I build software systems.</p><p>The mind and consciousness use different <i>semantics</i>, they operate differently. You need an abstraction in code when two systems use different semantics. The mind is a repository of patterns based on historical experience. Consciousness is that experience itself. Consciousness is an abstraction over the patterns of mind. The differing semantics drive out separate abstract mechanisms.</p><p>In a similar fashion, the soul is an abstraction over consciousness. Consciousness drives experience from the patterns of all the previous experiences in the mind. The soul drives the being from the patterns of all the previous lifetimes you’ve had.</p>
