---
layout: post
title: As an atheist, if I want to believe a religion, which one is the right one?
date: 2017-11-10
---

<p>The one you grew up with and around and is shared by your parents and family.</p><p>Look, the other religions of the world don’t need you. There’s no point in converting unless you have a <b>very</b> good reason for doing so, like, say you’re marrying into a Muslim family to someone that rocks your world. Religions are deeply felt by some people, and only lightly held by the rest of them. Atheists are people who want to believe in something, but finds religion stupid and wanting. So they believe in the opposite direction.</p><p>But your parents, your grandparents, and everyone around you <b>does</b> need you to share the faith and pass it around like a giant bong. So when you finally decide you’ve had enough of pretending you’re better than everyone else, go back to your roots and admit you were wrong and bask in the acceptance and admiration of your family. It’s a mark of maturity and growing up, just nut up and do it.</p><p>You’d be amazingly surprised by how many of our parents generation are atheists in all their belief structures but they never actually come out and say it. This is the right way to stop believing in the religion of your forebears, not to scare the everloving crap out of your loved ones by calling everything they believe in stupid.</p><p>Look, it’s all the same stuff. You can literally take any spiritual tradition and analogize it to any other. If you stay away from the horribly dogmatic, like your crazy Aunt Marie who just absolutely <b>needs</b> you to believe and validate that the Holy Spirit is the true god, the Father and Son are just aspects, then you should be just fine.</p><p>But if you think Buddhism is the way, please please reconsider. Buddhism is an Eastern religion. All the things that make it poignant and meaningful are all the way over there in Asia. Nip some of their practices. Add an Asian flair to your interior decorating. Cultivate a meditative practice, even become enlightened. But the Buddha himself said you should honor the religion of your ancestors.</p><p>To those who want to jump on me saying that Buddhism isn’t a religion, please. I used to volunteer at a Buddhist church right here in the US. It looked <b>exactly</b> like a Christian church, with pews, an altar, study rooms, and community events, and worship services. The self-help folks sold you a lie. There’s Buddhist dogma, and violent <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buddhism_and_violence" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">politicized Buddhism</a>. If you take the rose-colored glasses off you’ll see that it’s exactly the same as all the other religions. Dropping your parents religion in favor of atheism because you think their religion was stupid and then dropping that in favor of Buddhism is the height of naivete.</p>
