---
layout: post
title: How does it feel when you are enlightened?
date: 2017-07-25
---

<p>It’s, uh, pretty neat.</p><p>Imagine being in the arms of God. He’s always there, always ready to step in, always observant, always willing to offer insight. You know you can never take a false step. There’s no doubt, you can fall and know something’s going to catch you. Whatever issues come your way, you deal with and then move on.</p><p>You might think it’d be boring, but it’s anything but. With my mind free of the normal everyday concerns, I can concentrate on higher concerns. Or if I’m a little weary of contemplating the ultimate, I can immerse myself in the day-to-day.</p><p>I’m constantly rocking back and forth between present and distant, engaged and detached. I get a little more momentum with each swing. No need to rush, I’ll get there in due time, wherever ‘there’ is.</p><p>When I was younger and enlightened it was like being in on a club that nobody else knew about. I went around, having adventures. It always seems a bit weird being so serene while everyone else is going crazy, but I got used to it.</p><p>Kinda weird to say this, but I inherited a proneness to anger from my father. It’s kinda fun actually, expressing anger. I like to scheme up ways to express it more effectively and with inventiveness. I like having a character flaw, I think it makes me more interesting.</p><p>I’m always looking for ways to be more engaged with the world. My mind feels like a clutch sometimes, if you’ve ever driven a standard. I release the clutch and my mind bites into the world and I shoot off like a rocket. But I have to push it back in because otherwise I’d rocket right out of here. Or to be more precise, a certain part of me shoots off like a rocket, leaving the rest of it wondering what the heck happened.</p><p>Sometimes I think I’d like to run a company or something. I may get around to building one soon enough. But again, all in due time. I’m happy and fulfilled, no need to rock that boat.</p>
