---
layout: post
title: Have you ever heard of a clear spiritual experience from an atheist that assumed a bizarre coincidence? What was it? How did you know otherwise, without experiencing it?
date: 2017-08-24
---

<p>Just today, our team lead talked to me and said he’d gotten diagnosed with thyroid cancer. His girlfriend was messing with his neck and they noticed it was swollen. He went to go get it checked out and while the swollen throat wasn’t actually cancer, they did find a tiny cancerous tumor on the x-ray.</p><p>The prognosis on catching this kind of cancer as early as they did is 100% survival. Usually they don’t catch it until it’s a 50% survival rate.</p><p>Naturally, he attributes this to luck. Of course I know better.</p><p>Seeing this sort of thing happen to atheists, and their attributions, is so ridiculously common to me that it’s not even interesting anymore.</p><p>I’m starting to believe that atheism lies at the bottom of a consciousness valley. Before you venture down into the atheist valley, you attribute everything, stupidly, to spirituality. These people don’t know how to make sense of the world, and are using spirituality as a crutch.</p><p>As you progress in consciousness, you enter a phase where you can perceive enough about the world to be skeptical of spiritual idiocy. But you throw the baby out with the bathwater and materialism becomes your crutch.</p><p>You slowly claw your way out of it, by becoming more and more philosophical. Eventually spirituality gets reintroduced, but you’re doing it in a completely different way than the idiots.</p><p>For an atheist to perceive the random luck he gets all the time to anything other than pure luck, in a turtles all the way down sense, is just way beyond his level of consciousness. But that won’t stop the universe from giving him those experiences just to mess with his worldview. God takes the long view, consciousness is built over lifetimes, not on the time scale of any single event.</p><p>As I’ve said before in answers, there’s no way to usefully increase anybody’s level of consciousness. So the right solution is to just congratulate them on their luck in a way that intuits that you believe there’s more to it but not actually challenge their worldview. It’s not up to you to bring them along to the next phase. That’s God’s work.</p>
