---
layout: post
title: Will guys have sex with any girl who finds them attractive?
date: 2017-07-17
---

<p>Personally, I’ve had far more women who I haven’t been attracted to express interest in having sex with me than those I was. I’ve had sex with many women that I wasn’t attracted to, but that presented an opportunity for me to both learn something about myself and have a <i>somewhat</i> pleasant experience.</p><p>The experience wasn’t always pleasant. In many cases, it was downright <i>unpleasant</i>. Over the years, I’ve had to learn to reserve sexual expression strictly to those women I’m interested in. I’ve had to realize that my preferences were mine and not necessarily universal. Some guys like tall thin blondes. I like short thick brunettes.</p><p>And my tastes have changed over the years. I used to be exclusively attracted to big-breasted women. Lately I’ve been nurturing my burgeoning fascination with women despite their bust size. I no longer need you to have huge fucking udders for me to be massively attracted to you.</p><p>I’ve turned into way more of an ass man than I’m used to being. Asses are more democratic. Tits are classist.</p><p>But more than anything, I’ve learned how to be sexually attracted to a mind and not just a body. People attach lots of moral weight to this sort of thing, but all that leads to is frustration. I can now legitimately say that if you say something sexy, I’m gonna get hard. Maybe not for long, but it’s there, ready for me to develop.</p><p>I will say though, that mutual attraction is an absolute requirement. I would <b>never</b> want to have sex with a woman that wasn’t also attracted to me. It, again, took me a long time to realize the implications of this. I’ve made unreasonable demands of women to make their sexuality fit my needs rather than hers. Not that I’d ever rape anyone, but being mean to a lady just because her sexuality didn’t line up with mine wasn’t always considered totally wrong by me.</p><p>Now it is. I can’t develop attraction anymore towards a woman who isn’t also attracted to me. No need to ask, cajole, or demand. I would never ask a woman to have sex with me that wasn’t 100% interested in also having sex with me. Mutual attraction is absolutely a necessity.</p><p>Do I want to have sex with a girl just because of that? No. But I can’t do it if attraction isn’t present.</p>
