---
layout: post
title: I know what sexual attraction is, but what is this desire to have a beautiful woman look at the dark corners of my soul and tell me I&#39;m OK?
date: 2017-07-16
---

<p>It’s neediness.</p><p>Sexual attraction is looking at someone and wanting to have sex with them. Romantic attraction is looking at someone and wanting to spend hours in their company, sharing in the good feelings you have for each other.</p><p>Both of them are similar in that they revolve around <i>things you want to do with them</i>. Also, they are simple and uncomplicated. Your desire revolves around <i>something you want another person to do for you</i>. They don’t get a say in whether to look at your soul and validate it.</p><p>And why do you need this kind of validation from a woman? And why does this woman need to be beautiful? Think about the implications of this carefully. Is this a rational thing to want?</p><p>And then think about it from her perspective. Is she just there to play into your validation fantasy?</p><p>If you want someone to be interested in interacting with you, you need to make it interesting <b>for them</b>, not just yourself. You can get the validation you seek, but you need to be capable of putting her needs and wishes first before you unload your need gun on her.</p><p>And you need to be careful when you do, because this is the sort of neediness that can get really scary for her, because it’s psychologically tied to violent tendencies. I’m not even saying this is you, your damage probably doesn’t skew that way. But if I had a nickel for every beautiful lady I knew whose had a violent ex, I wouldn’t be cooking my food every night.</p>
