---
layout: post
title: What are the pros and cons of finding a boyfriend from a dating app instead of in real life?
date: 2017-06-22
---

<p>A2A, not looking for boyfriends, so I guess I’ll give my impressions of online dating in general.</p><p>I don’t do online dating apps. I’m not saying they can’t work, I’m just saying that using a dedicated app to find romantic connection is just not something that interests me.</p><p>Being a web developer, I’ve often thought about what the perfect dating app would be, that I’d want to actually use. Then I think about the common problems women have when dating, and that’s when I realize that successful dating apps, like Plenty of Fish and Tinder, are highly focused on a particular kind of user with particular needs that are well-suited for an Internet application to fill.</p><p>Plenty of Fish is focused on relationship compatibility. For me this is wholly uninteresting. I am interested in relationships, but it’s a secondary concern to me. I want to know if there’s going to be sizzle and spark in our connection. Matching interests is about the least sexiest thing in the world. For me, the spark comes first, romance comes second, and compatibility third. PoF focuses on compatibility first, romance second, and spark third.</p><p>With a name like Tinder, you’d think that spark would be easy to find there. But I’ve found spark to be really difficult to find on Tinder. I can look at a girl on Tinder and be able to tell whether I’m likely to feel any spark with her, But it takes a few seconds, and I often have to go into the rest of the profile, I can’t tell just from the picture.</p><p>Imagine doing that over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, only to find that the only person that you matched to you swiped right by accident. Yes, I know there’s ways to jazz up your profile. But when I start to think about doing that, I realize that endlessly grooming my appearance to be suitable for others just isn’t how I want to use my time, and that’s the road you start on if you want to get the most out of Tinder.</p><p>It’s just not that interesting to me. Romantic interest already comes fairly easy for me, I don’t need to shovel dozens more women into the pipeline. I’m a craftsman working with hand tools, not a construction worker grinding out buildings.</p>
