---
layout: post
title: Why doesn&#39;t Islam let its followers leave?
date: 2017-05-29
---

<p>To understand this prohibition, you must first understand the basic way in which medieval life differed from modern life. In ancient times, you simply could not easily leave your community. Transportation was extremely expensive, as was lodging, food, anything you want or need to live.</p><p>Even when you had resources, the people in the next town tended to be distrustful of outsiders, for very good reason. The community which you grew up in, is the community you most often died in.</p><p>Group identity is an extremely powerful psychological force. Militaries, school sports teams, and nations are built on top of it. The smaller, more tight-knit the community, the stronger the force.</p><p>There are very few things more powerful than group identity was back then, because it was tied to survival. These are people that grew your food, that looked after your kids when you were out in the field, that you trusted and relied on. Without them, you had nothing.</p><p>You think your parents are bad? Try living out in the woods with nothing but your hands and feet and wits.</p><p>The flip side of group identity is that it made you work harder for your brothers and sisters. So you could all share more wealth. Because everything people had was made by someone else, at great expense in terms of time and resources spent, people get very jealous when people that aren’t part of the group partake but don’t give back.</p><p>That father of yours which demanded on pain of beating your submission to traditional family values was the same one who fed you and built a house for you to live in. There wasn’t any “medieval CPS” to complain to if your father abused you. You were afraid of your father, but you were more afraid of the possibility of <b>not</b> having your father.</p><p>In this context, the religious crime of apostasy makes a lot of sense. It’s one thing to be a non-believer or of another faith. That’s a natural state of affairs that is perfectly understandable.</p><p>It’s quite another entirely to have been accepted into the flock, fed and cared for, taught the traditional ways, given a place in the community, then for you to turn around and proclaim that the entire foundation the community is built on is a sham.</p><p>The people at the top and the leaders of great kingdoms did not need religion. Religion was <b>specifically</b> there to provide for cooperation amongst people who weren’t fabulously wealthy. Religion was there to provide a framework to divide and reward the truly awesome amount of work it took to create and provide for a community.</p><p>With modernism came the kind of material plenty that allowed regular people a break from the constant demands placed on them by the community. It allowed people like you the breathing room to sit back and actually criticize religion from an intellectual standpoint.</p><p>Religion was <i>not</i> a matter of intellectual curiosity for the average medieval peasant. It was a matter of survival.</p>
