---
layout: post
title: How do I know that enlightenment is truly eternal?
date: 2017-06-29
---

<p>The first time you achieve enlightenment it’s really new to you. A being is something that wants things, dissolution of the wanting part of you is strange and weird and exciting. That first enlightenment puts you in the first phase of “beyond-being.”</p><p>The second time it’ll be a bit more familiar. You’ll “recognize” more of the state from your last lifetime. Generally this is automatic and you don’t have to know what it is for it to happen.</p><p>And it doesn’t just happen with enlightenment. At a certain point in the brain of every human, personality starts developing. This comes from the previous life. Humans immediately find a way to continue their old existence in a new body.</p><p>Subsequent times make enlightenment easier and easier to process. Eventually it starts happening earlier and earlier.</p><p>Eventually you are born with the state. Your mind develops naturally, but there’s never any big transition point where the ego just drops. Regular thought happens, but it’s easily ignored and as a result ego just detaches whenever it feels the need to.</p><p>Once you’ve reached this stage in your evolution, enlightenment is so natural that you have to work to understand what it’s like to not be enlightened. That’s a new journey. Enlightenment is no longer bigger than you, you are bigger than enlightenment.</p><p>So you teach. Teaching the state helps you to understand it. You may decide to get born a few times without enlightenment so you can have a frame of reference so it’s easier to teach.</p><p>Once that gets boring you try to bring enlightenment to people without teaching them. Then you can try to work teaching back in.</p><p>Enlightenment isn’t just eternal, it’s <b>exponential</b>. It explodes outward with the force of the big bang. The most amazing thing you can imagine is mere child’s play. All limited to a single being’s consciousness. This is the magic and the struggle.</p>
