---
layout: post
title: Is God grateful?
date: 2017-10-23
---

<p>God seems to have little trouble keeping up with 7 billion people’s personal growth. Anybody who is the least bit spiritual will have noticed the peculiar phenomenon called luck. Luck is God’s way of affecting events without tipping his hand.</p><p>There’s a new theory about how minds work called <i>predictive processing</i>, link <a href="http://slatestarcodex.com/2017/09/05/book-review-surfing-uncertainty/" data-qt-tooltip="slatestarcodex.com">here</a>. Essentially neurons are state-recognizers. When things match how they’re ‘supposed’ to look, the neurons go quiet, otherwise they raise an alarm, causing other neurons to wake up and start processing the alarmed state until all is quiet in the brain again.</p><p>The interesting thing about this is how quick ‘recognition’ is. When you recognize something, that happens practically instantly in the brain. When you don’t recognize it, you generally start taking action to gather information that will get you to recognition, and once you recognize it, you tend to relax.</p><p>One amusing example of this is the tendency of adults to <b>need</b> to know the sex of babies they look at. It just sticks in your mind and you <i>have</i> to ask. Babies don’t care, it’s the parents that need this, so we dress boys in blue and girls in pink.</p><p>My idea is that the universe responds in much the same way to us when driving to us events and things. God sees something we could be, and drives us experiences that help us to evolve. Sometimes they’re pleasant, sometimes they’re not, but they all help us grow.</p><p>This implies that we’re somewhat akin to neurons in God’s mind. Obviously God is more than just a mind, just as we are. But our minds are the loci of our existence and the primary focus of our spiritual growth. They’re important. And so we are important to God.</p><p>The question asks about an emotion that God might have, specifically gratefulness. The first thing that sticks out to me is that in order to be grateful for something, you must first be aware of that thing. You can’t appreciate your mother’s sacrifices for you if you are unaware of them. There is a theory that states that God is a consciousness awakening through the collective enlightenment of all beings in the universe. If this theory is true, then that would mean that God could only be grateful if the capacity of his mind, that means you and me, is capable of it. So if you believe in God, you are forming the very capacity of God to be grateful of you in return.</p><p>God’s predictive processing of your life events, aka luck, is very exactly, your experience of God. The two are one in the same. If you hate yourself and so draw bad luck towards yourself, that is God hating himself. If you create abundance in your life, then that is God loving and being grateful for himself.</p><p>You are God.</p>
