---
layout: post
title: How can I avoid female drama at work? I have a co-worker who is subtly flirtatious and if I&#39;m not receptive she takes it out through work, creates drama, or stabs me in the back. What do I do?
date: 2017-09-22
---

<p>This is an excellent opportunity to work on the finer aspects of your social skills.</p><p>The skills you need are positivity and tact.</p><p>Positivity means never letting anything come out of your mouth that’s not intended to make other people feel good. This is important, but not everyone can be positive all the time. So you need the second rule to guide you.</p><p>Tact is never saying anything that’s actively hurtful to someone. You can be boring, you can be negative, you can be ugly, but never ever ever say anything that’s purposefully hurtful. Mistakes will be made, that’s fine, but when they are, you need to <i>apologize</i> for what you did.</p><p>With those two rules in mind, let’s turn to your situation. You have someone in your life who wants you to feel a certain way about them that you don’t feel. You can’t just ignore them and she can’t just not be interested in you so you have a problem that needs to be managed because it can’t be solved.</p><p>She wants you to interact with her, so interact with her. I’m not saying you have to like her, but you do need to be able to talk to her and be friendly. So what do you say? Well, anything. Anything that doesn’t break the two rules. Always be tactful, apologize and say you’re not up to conversation right now if you can’t bring yourself to not be hurtful.</p><p>Once you’ve mastered tact, shoot for positivity. Make her feel good about herself without actually flirting back. Someone that feels good when they interact with you is not going to make trouble for you.</p><p>I’m not saying she deserves it from you, I’m saying you can’t solve the problem by getting away from her, you both work together, so you have to just deal with it.</p>
