---
layout: post
title: How do I become more spiritual and understand my surroundings and self better?
date: 2017-12-28
---

<p>Spirituality starts and ends with belief. It is a journey to understand the self. Different people believe different things about that self but what’s important is that you drives the evolution of that self forward, not that you arrive at some “absolute” understanding.</p><p>No spiritual dogma is any better than any other dogma. The Christians believe you need redemption before you can spend eternity in Heaven with God, and that redemption is best found through Jesus. The specific mystic elements of that redemption and foundational aspects of the faith, such as the Trinity, are hotly debated topics, but really aren’t the point.</p><p>The point is personal evolution. Christians want to be more like Jesus, to adopt personal characteristics that they read about that he possesses. Loving your neighbor, turning the other cheek, that sort of thing. This is the real point of believing. So you’ll care enough to follow through with prayer and going to church and learning and studying the Bible.</p><p>So, in order to have a spiritual experience, you need a map to follow. In the beginning, it’s good to follow someone else’s map and just go by what resonates with you. You just keep doing something that you either believe in or want to explore, and keep doing it until it doesn’t seem like you’re getting anything out of it any more.</p><p>One tradition that likes to make a lot of maps is Buddhism. There are as many maps as there are traditions, and the traditions are legion. So you might pick up a book on Buddhism that seems to grab you off the shelf. You read it and discover a meditation exercise. Suspend your disbelief and just do the exercise. Keep doing it for awhile until you either can’t do it anymore or it flowers into something deeper. If you can’t get a lot out of it before you put it down, try again with something else. If you end up going deeper, then dig as far as you can go with it.</p><p>Something that’s really powerful is engaging other people. When I was young, I got involved with the local pagan community. Being able to share spiritual experiences helps make them more real.</p><p>In the end, it again comes down to belief. You have to believe that it was all worth it, otherwise you’ve pretty much just wasted your time. This is as much an exercise of suspension of disbelief as doing it in the first place was.</p><p>We have a term for what happens when you get so high on spiritual experiences, then suddenly you lose faith. The “dark night.” It happens to everyone eventually who gets really invested. The journey gets really personal at this point, and you just have to push through it.</p>
