---
layout: post
title: Does the spiritual enlightened one make mistakes? If yes, when does this realization happen and what could be the after effect of it?
date: 2017-09-24
---

<p>You have to define what a “mistake” is first. I do things out of ignorance that later seem to be bad decisions at the time, all the time. Later it usually turns out that the course of events had it not gone “badly” would have likely led to an even worse outcome.</p><p>It’s hard to give any specific examples from my life without getting unbearably lengthy, but I’ve had the experience of bad events later turning fortunate so many times that I just assume that’s the case whenever life puts me in weird situations.</p><p>Years ago, I did a bunch of self-inquiry around what it means for me to learn and grow in life. The realization was that there’s nothing at all for me to learn in life. No big lesson, no hard path to walk. I spend this life as I must’ve spent my last lifetime, and the one before it, and probably many before it: remember who and what I am, refine the process of coming to that discovery, and see what kinds of cool stuff I can do and neat things I can discover.</p><p>OK I just remembered an example. One day I got pulled over on the way to work. Turns out I’d ignored a whole bunch of traffic citations and my license was suspended. Instead of going to work that day, my father grudgingly went with me to all the different courts where I had outstanding matters and we sorted it all out.</p><p>I literally just ignored some fairly serious matters and let them build up until all the consequences hammered down on me at once, and then took care of it all with a shrug. I was back on the road that same day.</p><p>Perhaps I could be more grateful. My father did pay for most of those tickets. But I’ve observed no difference in how the universe treats me no matter what emotional tack I take. I try to express more gratitude to people that I feel deserve it, but the universe doesn’t want or need it from me.</p><p>I am simply, from my perspective, “blessed.” In a Dorian Gray sense, from time to time I test the capacity of the universe to ensure minimal to no consequences to any of my actions. Universally I find that my appetite for risk does not match its forbearance. I suppose I could go put my entire paycheck on red at the roulette table and tempt the universe into ruining me.</p><p>But, well, meh. One paycheck isn’t going to break me. I have a <b>long</b> way to fall if I’m ever to consider myself ‘ruined’. I’d have to really work at it. This was true when I was doing temp jobs in Utah after I quit the military and living hand to mouth, and it’s still true today. Gambling with fate simply doesn’t interest me.</p><p>Small mistakes simply aren’t worth the time to analyze and learn from. For me, they never were. I can literally ignore them and let my subconscious sort it all out.</p>
