---
layout: post
title: How do enlightened people know they are enlightened? In my opinion there is only an undeniable physical reality and we are just these bodies. What is so bad about that?
date: 2017-12-15
---

<p>That was my understanding too when I was born. I happily continued that way throughout school. After I graduated, life started feeling a little, well, thin. I started meeting and hanging out with people that were very different than myself.</p><p>In short, what opened up was a large, large space that stuff like playing video games and learning how to code just wasn’t going to completely fill. I wanted to inquire about deeper stuff in life, like free will, purpose, and God. The people I was meeting were pursuing spirituality in a way that I’d never seen before.</p><p>So whenever I got bored of the mundane, I turned my attention to the transcendent. This began in my late teens. I’m 34 now. Close to 20 years of semi-constant inquiry.</p><p>Your point of view isn’t a bad one, it’s certainly workable and you can find meaning in your life just believing in the physical and nothing more. But it would never satisfy me. I would be endlessly bored and unmotivated and unfulfilled.</p><p>I know I’m enlightened as a result of this constant inquiry. I had to read many, many descriptions of it, and synthesize all the descriptions based on my own reasoning. I’ve dug so deep into meditation and the so-called psychic powers that I’ve been able to come to an understanding of what they exist for and why.</p>
