---
layout: post
title: As a software engineer, what are your tips for effective time management?
date: 2017-07-29
---

<p>I personally only work on work hours. Once you get good at what you do, then actual coding only takes up a few hours of your time every day. If that. You can spend the rest of your time doing whatever you want.</p><p>I have always done this. If I feel like messing around with stuff in my off hours, I’ll do that. If I don’t, then I won’t. I wouldn’t know what time management is because my workload has been so low for so long that I’ve lost sight of what it means to be overworked.</p><p>Every once in awhile an employer will decide they want some ridiculous thing done on a ridiculous timeline. This used to affect my perception of my job satisfaction. Nowadays I just treat all such things as standard business-person ignorance and seek to educate.</p><p>If it really is a bet-the-company business concern, and they really have to have it pretty much immediately, I’ll put in a few late nights. I like accomplishing things, I find it rewarding in and of itself, so I don’t mind if something really and truly needs my skills and expertise, going the extra mile.</p><p>But realistically, software development and maintenance is not something that can possibly be rushed. Business people have a vast gulf between their ideas and the real world. The software engineer is the facilitator that has to both moderate the business person’s ambition and then turn it into reality once the ambition is realizable.</p><p>You, budding software engineer, have to realize that you are a literal wizard. You could make Things of Incredible Value, in very short amounts of time, if only you knew what they were. The business people are supposed to know what they are, but realistically they’re throwing darts at a dartboard.</p><p>You are the dart.</p>
