---
layout: post
title: How do I attract a developer for my startup?
date: 2017-06-14
---

<p>You don’t. In your position the thing to do is to learn how to code yourself. There are two viable options, you can learn on your own or you can go to a code bootcamp. I suggest the bootcamp. It’s more expensive but you don’t spin your wheels half as much.</p><p>No developer is going to be interested in working for free to make you rich. Promises of money later are totally worthless. Developers are not banks, they aren’t in the business of providing things of value to people now in exchange for promises to pay later.</p><p>Equity isn’t valued by developers not because we just hate owning pieces of companies, but because in most cases equity is totally worthless. The success of a business being run by somebody else is in the hands of that person running the business. And even if the company becomes a success, there’s no guarantee of the equity grant making you rich.</p><p>The fact that you have an idea and want to work <i>really really really hard</i> to build a business around it is just totally unimpressive to any dev that could actually build it for you.</p><p>Ask yourself this, what is the best thing you can offer a dev assuming you guys are reasonably successful? Is it just another job? How does that move the needle and why would it be worth dropping whatever else he’s doing for an outside shot at it?</p><p>Maybe in the next few years someone will tackle the problem of founder matching. But you still will have to be able to offer a developer something worth his while.</p>
