---
layout: post
title: Can I live a life where everything I do is a form of meditation while simultaneously being productive so I can afford to live?
date: 2017-10-09
---

<p>Sure, that’s what I do.</p><p>When I was in my twenties, I hit upon the technique of moving meditation. I started to take walks while meditating. Eventually I picked up on the trick of not stopping my meditation when I’m no longer walking.</p><p>Soon enough, I could no longer tell the difference between meditating and not meditating.</p><p>It’s called ‘clear mind’. I had it before I started meditating, and actually sitting down and meditating made that abundantly clear to me. It made me aware that I could actually order my mind the way I wanted to.</p><p>What do I do with it? Mostly push it away and engage with my ego. I like being human and accomplishing things and being productive. With a bit of effort, I can recall meditative states. I’ve only done this once in the past few years, I just went into a closet and laid down and communed with silence.</p><p>The world of productive engagement is intertwined with ego. It’s hard to be meditative when other people have all these stupid demands. It’s practically impossible to find a decent job that will let you shut out the outside world and just meditate.</p><p>These competing dynamics form the basis for the meaning I’m making in my own life. To be engaged and yet still aloof. I engage when it suits me and retreat when I feel like it. The further I get in my career the deeper this gets.</p><p>For example, I typically solve problems with websites, that’s what my work day consists of. I have a method for solving perhaps 80% of them. The remaining 20% I can’t fix easily. So I’ll put it on the back burner in my mind and go do something else.</p><p>It’s always interesting to see how the problems get solved. Does my subconscious do it, or does the solution spontaneously spring forth before my eyes?</p><p>When I was in my twenties, I didn’t bother with a career and just did different things to survive. Had lots of different kinds of jobs and interacted with and relied on lots of different kinds of people.</p><p>I recommend the career. Way better to have one person pay you all the time than to have dozens paying you once.</p>
