---
layout: post
title: Is suffering necessary for enlightenment?
date: 2017-12-05
---

<p>I like to say that I’ve never suffered a day in my life. This isn’t to say that I’ve never felt pain or discomfort. I have. But those things are not suffering.</p><p>If I pricked your finger with a pin, whether you feel pain or not will depend on exactly where I sticked the pin. I used to have fun when I was a kid pushing needles through the sides of my fingers and weirding people out.</p><p>Pain is <i>just</i> the operation of neurons transmitting to your brain and affecting how you experience things. It’s just information coming in over a wire. You can meditate on that pain and while it won’t necessarily go away, the attendant <i>suffering</i> can lessen or go away completely. What you’re left with is pure sensation with no sense of whether it’s a good sensation or not. It’s just there.</p><p>I was doing this when I was an ignorant little brat, you can do it now. In so doing, you learn the Four Noble Truths of Buddhism, that life is suffering, that the origin of suffering is the self, that you can cease suffering through walking the path of mindfulness.</p><p>Through this simple exercise on doing insight onto pain, you gain a mini-enlightenment and entry into nirvana, freedom from the suffering of minor pain. You are the source of the suffering, you do not have to turn your pain into suffering. You learn how to do this through mindfulness.</p><p>Of course, the more pain there is, the more mindfulness you need to exercise in order to not suffer. I get sick once a year and sometimes I look forward to it because it gives me opportunity to practice that aspect of mindfulness some more.</p><p>Naturally, there is a universe of identifications that the mind will just randomly form, not just the one that turns pain into suffering. All of these identifications can be seen and thought of as forms of suffering, and can be seen through using insight meditation.</p><p>When your mind has seen through so much of this identification that it’s dropped as soon as it arises, that’s enlightenment. When you’re enlightened, you no longer are interested in reducing suffering, but rather on creating meaning from it. It’s another grand journey.</p>
