---
layout: post
title: Why is it so hard for theists and atheists to engage in non-competitive discussions where both try to understand, instead of criticizing each other?
date: 2017-05-09
---

<p>The real answer here is that non-competitive discussions about things where there are fundamental disagreements are just really difficult, ego gets in the way. My solution is to embrace the adversarial-ness and try to make sound, logical points that come from a different perspective than the ones you hear all the time.</p><p>If you hadn’t been inundated in online debate like I have since the late nineties, you would be forgiven for thinking that the discussion hasn’t changed or evolved in all that time. But you’d be wrong. Both theists and atheists are way less intolerant of each other than they used to be.</p><p>Used to be, on any given web forum you’d get more than a few theists who for whatever reason thinks the Bible is valid enough justification for their points. You’d shoot them down, and their response was more Bible quotes. It was like that’s all the poor guys had. Inevitably they resorted to telling everyone they were going to hell.</p><p>Atheists virtually militarized under this pressure and, over the course of the next 20 years, wound up becoming the bullies they used to be fighting against. Now it’s the theists fighting a rearguard action in the public perception.</p><p>But since everyone knows the other side isn’t going away the repartee is way more gentlemanly. I’m trying to be part of a new zeitgeist of people integrating spirituality and rationality in way more interesting ways. I want atheists to play too, but I need to challenge them because they think they have the rational high ground. But the hill they’re standing on is just a pile of mud.</p>
