---
layout: post
title: Can a person be both an atheist and an agnostic at the same time?
date: 2017-05-04
---

<p><a href="/profile/None">User</a>’s diagram is cute, but trying to distinguish belief from certainty is just silly. Either you believe in God, you don’t, or you’re not sure. “Agnostic atheism” is just a cop-out.</p><p>Atheists are constantly trying to find a way to claim that they don’t believe in anything, period. But when you point out that atheism <b>is a belief</b>, they stick their fingers and their ears and hum as loudly as they can. Or they come up with bunk like agnostic atheism.</p><p>You know a 2x2 grid is bunk when one of the quadrants doesn’t plain make any sense. In this case it’s the agnostic theist part. You believe in God but you’re not certain he exists? That’s called being confused. Silliness.</p><p>If someone tried to fool me with this agnostic atheism BS, I’m going to look at the rest of their stated positions and arguments to figure out what they really are. Are you playing shell games with the meaning of the word “believe”? Then you’re an atheist trying to cop completely out of belief entirely. You know what you believe and are trying to square it up. Good luck with that. I’ve yet to see a completely internally consistent atheistic worldview except materialism, and materialism is stupid.</p><p>Are you busy trying to find a spiritual paradigm that works for you and not sure whether the Abrahamic God has a place? I’ll happily consider you an agnostic. You don’t know what you believe and that’s OK. Basically if the spiritual can find <b>some</b> place in your heart then you’re a real agnostic.</p>
