---
layout: post
title: If you believe in reincarnation, how do you feel about losing all of your wisdom in your next life?
date: 2017-07-26
---

<p>This is a question near and dear to my heart and to the entire philosophical concept of “beingness.” The way I deal with this and similar questions is to ‘hack’ at the question slowly over time.</p><p>One of the biggest things I picked up from Dr. David R. Hawkins is his ‘chain’ of identifications that you eventually release your ego death grip from. First, you identify with your body, then you release your identification over your body and then come to identify with your mind instead. Once you release that, identification passes to what he calls the Self. I do something similar.</p><p>The way I deal with it is to envision “consciousness” as a small light sitting in the ‘attic’ that filters through your entire being, body and mind. The light affects just about everything in your life, and not just the thing choosing how you think. It affects what kind of body you’re born into, even the kind of luck you get in your life.</p><p>Over the course of many, many, many lifetimes, your consciousness gets accustomed to being in various kinds of bodies. And then it learns to master them. And then it gets thrown into a new realm of life.</p><p>So you might have been a wolf at one point in time, learning how to control a wolf body and adapt to wolf customs. With each successive incarnation, you might decide to stay as a wolf for a while, until you outgrow it. Then you just move on to something new.</p><p>Becoming enlightened is about mastering human existence.</p>
