---
layout: post
title: Are there people who are completely unlovable, who have something about them that turns all people off and away from them, so that no one can love them or even consider loving them?
date: 2017-09-10
---

<p>Umm, no. Your problem is that you’re thinking of love in only one way. You’re a nail, so love must be a hammer. If someone tries to screw you in, you won’t think of that as love, even though a screw would be perfectly happy with that.</p><p>Think about love for a second and how to define it. At its most fundamental level, love is just the expression of positive feelings towards someone else. Oh sure, we have a word for that that isn’t love and we want to be precise. But what I’m getting at is that it’s a <i>form</i> of love. If someone claimed to love you and wouldn’t even express positive feelings for you, would anyone call that love? No. Positive expression is the whole point.</p><p>Another thing you need to realize is how the mind works. At first with a new person your mind is very binary. It’s looking for reasons to either dive in or kick a new person to the curb and stomp on his face. But as you get to know someone the feelings start changing. Most young guys are worried about the dreaded friend-zone, but the reality is, romance changes once you’re not mindlessly trying to stick your penis in something anymore.</p><p>As you get to know someone, your mind finds more and more ways to love them. It finds ways to deal with the hard-to-deal-with stuff. If you had a huge nose, guaranteed your partner will find a way to love that giant schnoz better than you ever could. It’s called falling in love and it’s an awesome feeling.</p><p>This is also why compatibility is such a huge problem, because being in love with someone that you’re not compatible with is really really bad. Finding someone to fall in love with is relatively easy, making sure you’re compatible is like ten times harder.</p><p>Eventually you lose your illusions about the whole thing. You stop thinking that the guys with the big muscles must be getting laid all the time. You start seeing that having lots of money, if you’re not careful, will make you a douchebag more than a good catch. (God help you if you’re lady with a lot of money, lots of guys won’t even mess with you.) You start seeing relationships in terms of compatibility and not just getting what you want. You lose your hangups about expressing your feelings towards people no matter who they are.</p><p>If a guy (or girl, answering from a masculine perspective, but the principle isn’t gender-specific) ever gets to that level, doesn’t matter what unattractive traits he has, he’ll find someone to love him. Might be a bit before he finds someone he’s compatible with, but he won’t have any trouble finding someone to fall in love with.</p><p>The guys that never find love, are the guys that never lose their illusions about it. That’s worse than any amount of “unlovability.”</p>
