---
layout: post
title: Do crystals have anything to do with spirituality or is it superstition?
date: 2017-06-29
---

<p>When I was younger I was part of a Wiccan coven. We took part in rituals with other spiritual groups, and hacked together our own peculiar form of religious practice from various books and source material. We used plenty of symbols, tools, essential oils, decorations, all to set the scene.</p><p>In that point of my life, I could have told you that crystals, when meditated on and worked with, can focus your energy, store it, and amplify it. I could have even done some research or asked someone more knowledgable than I which types of crystals were good for which things.</p><p>Nowadays I realize that anything the crystals did, your mind can do better. In fact, the only reasons the crystals worked at all was because they made your mind believe that something was possible.</p><p>Does this change anything about crystals? Not a gosh-darned thing. Is there a real difference between doing something with a crystal and doing it without a crystal? Yes, in fact there is! Whatever you’re doing <b>looks and feels</b> a heck of a lot better when you have a really pretty crystal to look at while you’re doing it!</p><p>The aesthetics of spirituality matter. Sure, once you get to Internet Enlightened Sage level you can dispense with all that and just go meditate in a closet with all your dirty laundry. I’ve done that and wouldn’t take those experiences back. But neither do I discredit my experiences being skyclad in my coven dancing around the athame. It’s fun. This stuff is <i>supposed</i> to be fun.</p><p>Not all the time of course, but if you <i>can</i> make it more fun and beautiful, well, God likes that sort of thing. There’s plenty of time and opportunity to get serious. Until then, if it feels good, don’t question it.</p>
