---
layout: post
title: What made you become an atheist?
date: 2017-11-20
---

<p>Atheism is a natural outgrowth of modernity. When you understand what problem religion solved in society, and what the tradeoffs were, it’s easy to see why people are casting it away now.</p><p>Religion solved the “why should I cooperate with and trust you” problem. See, individually, humans are pretty weak. Working together however, they can accomplish incredible things. But you couldn’t just share your vision with someone and then boom, they’d help you. A good amount of coercion was necessary.</p><p>Coercion is a shitty thing for people to do. It’s hard not just on the people getting coerced, but also hard on the person doing the coercing. You need a reason to do it, religion provided it. What we might better today call self-delusion, in the days before societies came together to form civilizations, those societies derived a great deal of power from belief. People who believe in something will be more effective at pursuing that thing than people that don’t.</p><p>Religion had to be minimally palatable for everyone in society, otherwise it didn’t work. And if it didn’t work, your society would succumb to a more effective one. Religion also provided a blueprint for agreements and responsibilities. If anyone decided to overtly put their own needs over the groups, religion provided the mechanism for redress. In this way, religions provided the earliest forms of checks and balances on the power of leaders. If you’re the literal symbol of God, people have a right to expect you to act like one.</p><p>All of this exacts a large toll on the individuals, namely belief. In order to function in society, you had to be indoctrinated into the local belief system. You didn’t get a choice. Your peers had to know you could at least toe the line and pay lip service to the prevailing customs, otherwise how could they trust you? So it behooved every family to ensure that children fell in line.</p><p>The modern world was build on top of these kinds of social structures. But we now have a better way to provide for cooperation between people, markets. Markets allow for the calculated taking of risk. The first markets and business enterprises bootstrapped off of existing religious avenues for cooperation. But all of society was not able to completely start relying on markets for everything until after World War 2. That war completely obliterated old social norms and forced the creation of something the world had never really seen before. Job markets.</p><p>Modern employment provided ordinary people the means by which they could become self-sufficient from existing loyalty networks and family structures. The social revolution that started with the Industrial Revolution finally spread far and wide enough to displace religiously-organized wealth accumulation and distribution networks. Markets, literally, are our new gods.</p><p>But even that wasn’t enough to create large numbers of atheists. For that, the Internet had to happen. Because even though people didn’t need religion, it still maintained a hold on society, simply out of pure dumb inertia. Your parents are Christian, their parents are Christian, unless you know better, you’re going to be Christian too. The Internet provided people with the means to know better.</p>
