---
layout: post
title: Are there any religions that acknowledge that they really don&#39;t know the answers about God?
date: 2017-12-02
---

<p>Well, that wouldn’t make it much of a religion, now would it?</p><p>There’s a reason why religious dogma often seems so hard-headed and obstinate. It’s because it has two main functions. To promote social order and to provide for the spiritual needs of the <i>lowest common denominator</i>. Religions are social affairs, everybody is expected to believe in them. Well, have you ever tried to convince someone that was really, well, <i>dense</i>, of something important? You have to put it in terms they’ll understand. And you have to stay on message or they’ll lose interest.</p><p>That is all you need to understand why dogma is the way it is. But religion doesn’t leave smart people high and dry. There’s a pathway for people that want the real deets. It’s called <i>mysticism</i>. Mysticism is when you explore the world of spirituality directly. They give you all the advanced materials.</p><p>When you do mysticism your mind changes, it adapts to the world of spiritual logic. The world of spiritual logic is extremely tolerant of ideas like “all gods are the same.” It’s also tolerant of strict dogmas. Spirituality is the world where you make your own reality. It can be as inclusive or as exclusive as you want it to be.</p><p>Dogmas get flipped on their heads, the reverse of statements like “God exists and everybody should worship him” become perfectly valid aspects of the religion. Hard to imagine Christian mysticism without Jesus, but pretty much everything else is fair game. If you look hard enough at the world of Christian offshoots, you’ll find a lot of weird ducks.</p>
