---
layout: post
title: Have you experienced bona fide Siddhis post-enlightenment?
date: 2017-10-11
---

<p>I once performed telekinesis.</p><p>It was during a time when I was expanding my psychic senses using a tool I’d developed to communicate with my subconscious. At the time I believed it was my “Higher Self,” and in fact, I still can’t rule out that it does in fact, contact an external mind. But I treat it as my subconscious and that works well enough.</p><p>Anyway, I had an old ThinkPad laptop. If you know anything about them, you know they have awesome keyboards and that’s just one of the reasons why I used them. So the keys had developed a stickiness in a certain area. I’d press the button and it would hesitate to come back up.</p><p>Mildly annoying, but not to the point where I wanted to try to fix it. My Higher Self up to that point was just putting my psychic sense through it’s paces. I would take walks outside, and it would direct me that it wants me to find something. I’d look around and try to find it. I felt a kind of mental ‘highlight’. I’d ask if that was it, and got a yes response from my muscle test.</p><p>So I was using my laptop and suddenly I got a message, “push energy into the laptop keys.” So I held my hand over the keys and pushed energy into them. I wasn’t expecting anything, but after a few seconds I tapped the keys, and what do you know, the stickiness was gone!</p><p>It came back after about a minute. Subsequent attempts killed the stickiness for less time. I didn’t try more than a few times.</p><p>You’d think I would go crazy with trying to become a TK master but it wasn’t really like that. Instead I sat there and thought about the implications. Did I really want this power? Sure it’s cool. But you know what else fixes sticky laptop keys? Pulling the keys off and cleaning the mechanisms. I had been dealing with this stickiness for like a week or two. I never bothered trying to clean it then.</p><p>What’s TK actually good for? I couldn’t think of anything other than stupid parlor tricks. I’d be more interested in figuring out the <i>process</i> of developing TK powers than in actually using TK. Because anything I’d use TK for, it would be easier and more powerful to just go do.</p><p>How would I develop them? Just wait for my Higher Self to point out opportunities and follow its lead? Am I going to study things in enough detail to find out just how to do stuff?</p><p>When you get right down to it, TK is just kinda dumb. All psychic powers are like that, really. I used to hang out at a coffee shop, the most interesting psychic power I was able to even think about was to get alerted when there was a cute girl at the nearby grocery store that I could go perv on. For some reason guys always do this sort of thing when they’re lonely and alone and horny, and they always want to use those ‘powers’ for sex.</p><p>Want to know how someone’s doing? Pick up a phone, don’t “read their energy.” Once the novelty of psychic stuff wears off, you’re left with poor imitations of things you can do a lot better with more mundane approaches.</p><p>On the other hand, I use intuition as a tool at my job. It helps me troubleshoot issues. If I didn’t have over 20 years of experience in understanding how software works, it wouldn’t work half as well.</p>
