---
layout: post
title: Is enlightenment possible?
date: 2017-10-11
---

<p>Questions like this are why multiple definitions of enlightenment are necessary. My enlightenment, the one I’ve studied for most of my adult life, simply is not available to most people. And if I keep drilling down into it and comparing perspectives and lessons and ideas, people rightly start objecting. Because you can’t analyze your way to enlightenment.</p><p>We as a society, as a tribe of people, a tribe of <i>seekers</i>, need to be able to talk about this in a way that <b>everybody</b> can call themselves enlightened. We need a perspective on enlightenment that is inclusive, not divisive. Because no one wants to hear that, no, you’re just not going to ever be able to become enlightened. You’re not conscious enough, you’re never going to be able to do it.</p><p>Even if it might be true, it’s still not <i>truth</i>. It’s not constructive, it doesn’t resonate with anyone. There is a very real need for materials and ideas and paradigms to create meaning in their lives and accomplish <i>something</i> that is really useful to them, that might not be “enlightenment” <i>per se</i>, but still makes a <b>huge</b> difference in their lives.</p><p>It’s the mature, responsible thing to do.</p><p>So how do we go about creating a version of enlightenment that anyone can achieve? Well, first let’s dive a bit into what makes the ‘real deal’ so hard.</p><p>What makes enlightenment not like any other goal is the need for a high amount of consciousness growth. Most people aren’t really aware of their level of consciousness growth and have to arrive at it through careful introspection.</p><p>Without a high level of consciousness growth, when you go to try to reduce your mind identification, also known as surrender, you’ll eventually reach a point where you just don’t know what to do next. You’ll need help. But you won’t know how to find the help, and you won’t know what to do with it when you get it.</p><p>Everything you do becomes a learning experience rather than just something you easily accomplish, like the act of pouring yourself a glass of milk. You don’t identify with and make meaning out of simple tasks and doing them doesn’t make your consciousness any bigger.</p><p>But throwing your body, mind, and being at the task of becoming enlightened will, because it’s bigger than you are. It’s just that enlightenment is not all that different than pouring yourself a glass of milk. It’s actually more akin to graduating college. Some people find it easy, some find it impossible.</p><p>But if you don’t manage to reach enlightenment, the meaning you made out of throwing yourself at the task <b>is still meaningful</b>. What you discovered was worth discovering. Your truth is your truth. You still came out of this a different person than you were before. Less identified with the baser aspects of self. Yes, more enlightened.</p><p>If as a result of seeking and striving, you drive out a change in the way you are, a change in your life, a change in your being, a change in the way you relate to others, a change in how the universe is able to bring things to you, why can we not call that enlightenment? Do you really need to be Ramana Maharshi up in a mountain retreat?</p><p>I will never tell someone who wants to identify as being enlightened that they are not enlightened. Even if they’re just trying to pull the wool over my eyes, they can still be whatever they want to be. I have my truth, and nothing you could ever possibly say could interfere with that.</p><p>Find yours. It can involve the weird thing that we weird seekers call enlightenment, or it can go nowhere near it.</p><p>And let us know what it is when you find it.</p>
