---
layout: post
title: You were working with good company, a good boss, and a good salary, then someone offers you a higher position and salary. Do you take it or leave it?
date: 2017-07-08
---

<p>Depends. Do you like this job? Do you have a good relationship with your boss and their boss? Is everyone involved more-or-less an adult? Would you keep your job if it paid the same as the new position?</p><p>If so, you can bring your offer letter to your current boss, and ask if they’re interested in matching the offer. At my last job I once managed to get a significant raise not with a job <i>offer</i>, but rather a job <i>ad</i>. That was pretty awesome, I didn’t have to go through any interviews or any of that rigmarole.</p><p>Key to all this is to have it in your head what you want, and make it so what you want is something that an employer can give you. So a salary number is fine, “less work” is not. “2 work from home days a week” is great.</p><p>Another thing people like to ask for that companies can’t give them is “more responsibility.” These things revolve around business needs, not your needs. Just because you want to lead a team doesn’t mean the company needs a new team. So if that’s your burning wish, then yeah, you will need to find a new company to get it done on your time table rather than theirs.</p><p>Just keep your head screwed on straight, don’t make any commitments until you know for sure what you’re doing, and if any party seriously tries to force your hand, consider the negotiations over and choose the other side. No decent employer will fault you for wanting to better your station.</p>
