---
layout: post
title: What is some of the mistaken or misleading information taught about awakening&#47;enlightenment?
date: 2017-07-22
---

<p>The one I have the most issue with is the common saying that “everyone is enlightened, just not everyone knows it yet.” This statement has minimal pedagogic and descriptive value.</p><p>For most people, the spiritual techniques they are likely to get the most fruit out of concern surrender. This is because Western culture has created a cult of the individual and so ego identification has become the biggest hurdle. Learning the need and purpose of surrender is the quickest path to enlightenment for Western seekers.</p><p>The entry point to surrender I see most being used is meditation, where you learn how to surrender control over your thoughts. That whole complex of questions, concerns, and answers regarding meditation all revolve around ego identification over thought.</p><p>The deliciously simple answer to all that is that all you really need to do when you are meditating is to learn how to enjoy sitting still in a quiet place. Push through the discomfort, keep at it, until you can sit in a quiet room for perhaps an hour and come out of it refreshed and not crazy. That is all you really need to do.</p><p>Sure, you <b>can</b> push through visualization exercises, trancendental techniques, breathing exercises, and the like, but all that really does is distract the ego from the basic task of sitting still, being quiet, and harmonizing with a state in which nothing is stimulating it.</p><p>But of course, that way of looking at it and approaching it is too simple and too hard for most people to start with. They need something complicated, because ego is complicated and it needs something to hold on to, even for the task of learning how not to hold on. So, a visualization exercise.</p><p>This sort of thing is where the silly adage that “everyone is enlightened” comes from. To the master, everyone seems to just need a little push. But only because he pushed himself like a nutjob to get to to the point where everything is simple.</p><p>Worse than that, I suspect most people who use that phrase don’t actually believe in spiritual growth, awakening, and enlightenment at all, they just like to use cool-sounding circular logic so they can sound clever.</p>
