---
layout: post
title: If I do not want to become spiritually enlightened, does that guarantee that I will not?
date: 2017-12-19
---

<p>The first barrier to answering this question, or any question about enlightenment, is first deciding what enlightenment is. For lack of a better framework, I’m going to use the framing of <i>nonduality</i> to define enlightenment. This is a perceptual mode that you either have or you don’t have, and is relatively easy to reason about.</p><p>With that out of the way, what actually makes someone enlightened from the nondual perspective? Well, the Buddhists have done more reasoning about nondual enlightenment than anyone, so let’s take a look at what they have to say, shall we?</p><p>The Buddhists have created various maps in their traditions that have you proceed through successive meditative states. The best framework for Western purposes that I’ve come across was synthesized by a Westerner, a doctor at that, and he’s done the hard work of actually going and reading the source material for much of the Buddhist world.</p><p>I’ve done enough meditating to know that this stuff works, and I’ve done enough musing to be able to suss out why it works, and why the various maps tend to all share the same basic structure. If you do all that, you’ll earn the ability to perceive nondually as your primary mode of experience.</p><p>There are varying frames you can use, I like the idea of progressive surrender of aspects of ego. But you can think of this at a high level as doing non-invasive surgery upon your mind. The framing will be different for everyone, surrender is a very Christian idea, and I’m highly sympathetic with Christianity, so that’s how I like to think about it. A similar Western-styled map to enlightenment is the excellent <i>A Course In Miracles</i>, which offers an extremely demanding, but effective map. It also uses surrender framing.</p><p>But mysticism can’t be all there is to it. We’ve all heard the Buddhist stories of dudes getting enlightened at six or whatever, you think six year olds can possibly follow a dharma map? This is where the ideas of reincarnation and levels of consciousness come in. If all we were limited to were the experiences of one lifetime, then that would seemingly needlessly curtail our ability to enjoy our life. Some of us are just lucky?</p><p>So levels of consciousness mean that as you get more conscious in life, you’ll eventually reach enlightenment naturally. In my experience, the higher your general level of consciousness, the easier you’ll find things like surrender to be. I believe some people are enlightened without even realizing it, without having gone down a mystical path or followed any maps to nonduality.</p><p>When this happens, your mind just does it all “underneath the hood.” So it’s perfectly possible for enlightenment to happen even though the person doesn’t want it. Their mind just does it, and conscious awareness believes what it believes.</p>
