---
layout: post
title: Is it creepy, pathetic, or immoral for &quot;sugar daddies&quot; to pay willing young women to be their intimate partners?
date: 2017-11-27
---

<p>Everybody involved in any kind of relationship, monetarily-driven or otherwise, is an individual and it’s important to note that the only “objective” form of morality society has to offer is the law. So you have to judge the morality of each sugar daddy relationship on its own merits. A teacher offering money for sex to an underage student has plenty wrong going on there even before you start throwing labels around.</p><p>One can argue that so long as no laws are broken and each participant is consenting to the arrangement, there’s no moral issue with such relationships. Differing levels of wealth and age between two people in a relationship is as old as love itself. I’d like to see an argument grounded in something other than the pure distaste some people have at seeing large age differences in romantic partners.</p><p>I really would, leave it in the comments if you have a real argument against college girls sowing their oats with older men. It’s not like they aren’t already getting it on. Just don’t let it be some variation on “save sex for marriage” because society lost that fight decades ago.</p><p>How do you distinguish such things from prostitution? Well, again, you need to go on a case-by-case basis. It’s really up to a court of law to decide, and there’s already a large body of case law out there that defines exactly what constitutes prostitution and solicitation.</p><p>I’ve been solicited by young women on dating websites before, I haven’t been able to observe any kind of fine line, I find it’s pretty darn clear if you just pay attention. If she wants you to meet tonight, in exchange for money, it’s prostitution. Escorts are trying to get paid, not bother with extended chatting or creating an emotional connection.</p><p>Some women like getting gifts, that doesn’t make them prostitutes. Is it a straight transaction, would she just take a hike if she wasn’t getting something out of it? Decide just how much you hate prostitution and draw your own line. I personally wouldn’t call it immoral, just distasteful. I don’t call it creepy because creepiness implies nonconsensual desire. I suppose it could be called pathetic but I don’t see people through that lens. Guy’s getting his needs met the best way he can, I don’t see a reason to judge him unless something else is going on.</p><p>As an aside, the continuing vilifying of the “creepy old man” drives a great deal of suicide in this country. I wish we as a nation could find it in our hearts to accept that no, you don’t lose your sex drive as an old man when you get older and no, not everyone has a fulfilling marriage to their high school sweetheart available to explore that sexuality in, that seems to be the bar for old guys having sex to clear in order to not be creepy.</p><p>You know what the newest hotbed for STD prevalence is in this country? Old folks homes. Let that sink in for a second. Would you rather your dear old Grandpa Joe get his rocks off with a willing young lady who actually enjoys the stories he has to tell her along with some cash assistance, or catching chlamydia from the addled old bat in 13b?</p><p>Someday I hope sex-positive culture comes around to everyone, not just pretty people.</p>
