---
layout: post
title: How can a spiritual master help you to attain enlightenment? Isn&#39;t that a personal journey?
date: 2017-09-03
---

<p>Excellent question.</p><p>The first thing that needs to be defined here is enlightenment. Enlightenment is a big word and it refers to a lot of different things, some of it goes together, some of it is unrelated. I will explain to you my conceptualization and then answer the question from that perspective. If you want a different perspective on enlightenment, then read one of the other answers. Spirit is the realm where you can do anything you want because it’s all going to work in the end.</p><p>So, to me, enlightenment refers to a specific quality of <i>consciousness</i>. You see, consciousness itself <b>evolves</b> alongside brains, bodies, political systems, societies, ideas, and the like. It evolves at the speed of experience. The basic idea is, you want something, you try to get it, you fail, you learn, you try again, you succeed. This basic rhythm is how you find meaning in things.</p><p>Does this mean that if you find better experiences, your consciousness can grow faster? No. Consciousness is always operating at its peak ability, any experience you have might be <i>experienced</i> as more enlightened, cooler, better, more interesting, more whatever. But it still affects <i>consciousness</i> at the same rate.</p><p>Consciousness slowly expands over the course of lifetimes. You slowly gain the ability to process and react to more. Consciousness growth is exponential, but the world is also exponential. When you gain more abilities, the universe steps up to the challenge of providing you with more meaningful experiences.</p><p>So, let’s say I relate to you some super-enlightened wisdom that totally changes your life. Does that make you more conscious? Not particularly. That wisdom came from me, not you. You merely got to use it for awhile. Humans make up for lacks of consciousness by banding together and sharing everything.</p><p>So you take my wisdom and live a long healthy life with it. You die and move on to the next life. Will you carry my wisdom with you?</p><p><b>No</b>. You won’t. No memories or abilities carry over with you into the new life. You will have to find something else to live your life on. If you were conscious like the spiritual master who gave you the wisdom, then <b>you would have come up with the wisdom yourself</b>.</p><p>High consciousness frees you from the necessity of having other people impart wisdom to you, because wisdom becomes something you can work with like an accountant does with numbers or a carpenter does with tools. It allows you to be flexible when situations change. It gives you the ability to shift, shape, adjust yourself, your morals, your circumstance, your everything, to the world so as to give you more freedom and ability and resources and everything.</p><p>The one commonality I see amongst people who fall in with spiritual / enlightened masters is that they need somebody to “show them the way.” They’re just on the cusp of being enlightened themselves, they just need a few more pushes, and a master is in the unique position to do that for them. They are <i>ready</i> for the master.</p><p>But this role is not needed any more. It was important back in the seventies before the Internet and before the whole explosion of the “New Age.” The New Age gets a bad rap, but it’s been really successful in getting ideas out there in the public consciousness to provide a sort of ambient ‘base’. Enlightened way-showers are very rare. But the information they discover and provide is, thanks to books and the Internet, extremely common.</p><p>Despite this, the mechanisms of wisdom imparting work the same. In the example above, the enlightened master that provided you with the wisdom was only able to do it because you were receptive. Lower consciousness people could not have accepted and implemented the wisdom. In the same way, low-consciousness people look at things like <i>The Secret</i> and think it’s about getting the material things you want in life. Those close to enlightenment will grab that material, work with it, find greater insights, and <i>move past the teachings</i>.</p><p>Because even enlightened consciousness has its limits. Not even Ramana Maharshi could come up with the entire foundation of Western philosophy and then build spiritual enlightenment on top of it. Lots of things are just too much for one person. But not everything, and a high consciousness person is going to find out what can be done <i>all by themselves</i>. That’s the difference. You can spend lifetimes around one and still not be able to figure it out.</p>
