---
layout: post
title: Do really gorgeous women ever get rejected when it comes to guys?
date: 2017-11-11
---

<p>I went out with an insanely beautiful woman that I’d nurtured a crush on for years. I finally got up the nerve to ask her out on Facebook. She accepted and we coordinated.</p><p>The actual date was a mess. She’d fallen asleep and missed our rendez-vous. I gave it half an hour and was about to leave when she texted me. We ended up eating there instead of the really nice spot she’d picked out. Regardless the conversation wasn’t horrible and I was invited back to her place after, which was across the street. We talked for an hour or so then I saw myself out. I didn’t ask for another date.</p><p>I don’t consider it a rejection so much as an acknowledgement that we just were two totally different people and our lifestyles weren’t compatible with each other. When she found “the one” a few months later I congratulated her warmly on her success.</p><p>I know this probably doesn’t answer your question but if you want to date really gorgeous women, you’re going to have to develop a strong sense of self because otherwise you’ll find yourself getting jerked around really hard, and it won’t even be them that does it to you, it’ll be you doing it to yourself.</p><p>After our date I had certain feelings I’d gotten from the time together. I spent some time analyzing those feelings to see if there was anything I could have done better. The feelings that I had revolved around thinking she was a mess because of how the date went. I was able to, through careful inquiry, see through the surface to the actual conversation itself, how stilted it was. We just didn’t connect. Maybe with more time we could have, but I’m not looking for a project. I want someone I click with from day one.</p><p>It had nothing to do with her. She’s a perfectly lovely woman with a lot to offer. And chances are, if you or anyone else is rejecting an “insanely gorgeous” woman, it will have nothing to do with them either. It’s either going to be your surface insecurities that you’re blaming her for, or an honest understanding of your compatibility.</p><p>If you want to date more than a few gorgeous women, make sure you’re using the latter framing, not the former.</p>
