---
layout: post
title: What if I&#39;m free from mindfulness, does that mean I&#39;m the fully enlightened one?
date: 2017-08-02
---

<p>I would say no, you still have quite a ways to go.</p><p>“Full” enlightenment encapsulates the idea that there’s nowhere left to go. You’ve learned all the interesting meta-lessons of being human, now you’re ready to proceed through existence as something else.</p><p>Mindfulness won’t even get you to table stakes in the poker game of enlightenment. I’m compiling a list of enlightenment traits. The main thing I’m finding is that it’s a moving target. But there are certain traits that you really need to have. The one you’re after is <i>utter mental calm</i>.</p><p>The enlightened don’t need meditation to quiet their mind. Their mind is a tool they can hold, like a chisel. And they are a true master of their tools. Mindfulness, best approached by meditation, is a good start. When you meditate to become more “mindful”, your mind actually <i>empties</i> of corrupting influences.</p><p>I personally never needed mindfulness meditation, what I did instead was visualization meditation. This is kind of a next step, a bit more advanced that ‘mere’ mindfulness, because you’re doing two things at once. Becoming more mindful, and attuning your mind to deeper rhythms.</p><p>Those deeper rhythms have a job to do, that job is to teach you about the many and varied ways things happen in the world and how to change, help, and manipulate it. Visualization meditation leads directly to contact with Spirit.</p><p>The next step is what I would call <i>remembrance</i> after my man George Gurdjieff. You need to remember who you are, at all times. It’s really difficult. Your mind naturally wants to forget that you’re a blessed, amazing being with tremendous power. You wake up in the morning and you go about your day, completely unaware of the vast amount of divine power just waiting for you to tap into.</p><p>A fully enlightened human never forgets, he is in full contact with the divine at all times. He <i>embodies</i><b><i> </i></b>the divine energies.</p><p>Finally, you need to be able to <i>bridge</i> that divine power back into the real world. You turn yourself into a conduit for God.</p><p>Once you have calm, you contact Spirit, which shows you how awesome and amazing you are. You then have to be able to identify with and embody those energies, then learn how to cast it out into the world.</p><p>Do that about a thousand times over a thousand lives, then maybe you can consider yourself fully enlightened.</p>
