---
layout: post
title: Why are so many genius coders and hackers not giving tips to others to help them?
date: 2017-05-18
---

<p>Oh this is timely. Just this morning, on the way out to work, the concierge asked me what I did for a living. I told him I was a software engineer. He was like, “oh man, here’s my chance!” and started picking my brain. He was going to school for some kind of software security.</p><p>I told him he should be downloading different types of software and trying to break them, what they call <i>pentesting</i>. There are all kinds of software courses and packages to help teach you stuff like that. I personally don’t know anything but the fundamentals, being a software engineer and not a security guy.</p><p>I wrote down the URL to Hacker News, and gave him the names of a few of the security-minded high-profile users, very approachable guys. That’s all I can do.</p><p>The big thing people are missing is that if you want to have a geek job, you need to <b>be a geek</b>. When he was playing sports in school, I was learning how to build computers. Then I learned how to build websites. Then I learned how to make Windows do what I wanted it to. Then I learned Linux. Then I installed a dozen different distros and made them work.</p><p>A story I like to tell people is that 4 years ago, I went on a two month trip to Colombia. I spent much of that trip learning “real” web development. I was so happy when I realized that the hostel I was staying at had a desk that I could sit at. Did I chase the ladies? Sure, on my off time.</p><p>Technology and coding is who I am, and I’m very good at it.</p><p>Guys like you who come up to me and want to be like me because you see me making a hundred large a year and live in a super nice place all seem to think you just need to study hard for a few years and you’ll get there. You think it’s a matter of educational materials that aren’t there for you.</p><p>But I had exactly the same materials available to me that you had. I just chose to seek them out and use them. You chose to do something else with your time.</p><p>I can’t dump the countless hours I spent chasing down bugs, beating my head against manuals, reading programming books, building things, abandoning them because I realized they wouldn’t work, all into your brain, not on any reasonable time frame, anyway.</p><p>One of my good friends who I’ve known for years came up to me one day and wanted to learn how to code. He’s smart and driven, I thought all I would have to do is just point him in the right direction. So I, with my own money, bought the gold-standard Rails Tutorial, by Michael Hartl, for him and told him I’m just a phone call away if he ever has any trouble with anything. I even offered to sit down with him once a week and help him go through everything and anything.</p><p>Did I ever get a call from him? Nope. I kept on him when I could, but I quickly realized that the Rails Tutorial was too much for him. It was too steep a learning curve, and a shallower one would have taken him years, and he didn’t have years.</p><p>Everybody wants a shortcut. But guess what! That shortcut exists! They’re called code camps. You pay $X000 dollars and get access to a <b>course</b> specifically designed for people like you to take you from no skills at all, to having just enough to get an entry-level job in software development.</p><p>But you don’t just want a shortcut, you want a <b>free</b> shortcut. Well I can’t do that for you. I wish I could, believe me, I <b>really</b> wish I could be the guy to invent that. It would be amazing. I would happily give up my privileged position in the world so that I could live in one where my expertise <i>isn’t even special</i>. I get positively ecstatic when I think about it, it would be that awesome. You wouldn’t even have to pay me to invent it. I’d do it all just to unleash it onto the world.</p><p>But I have no idea how to do that. And nobody else does either.</p>
