---
layout: post
title: How do enlightened Buddha-like people live the rest of their life after enlightenment?
date: 2017-10-31
---

<p>They clog up Internet message boards waxing dogmatic about no-self.</p><p>The one thing enlightenment does not remove from you is the need to create <i>meaning</i>. The Bodhisattva Vow attempts to address this, by calling on all enlightened people to dedicate their future efforts, in this life and the next, towards spreading enlightenment so that the whole world can be enlightened.</p><p>Naturally, the Buddhist world is a human world like all the others, so you don’t actually have to be enlightened to take the vow. Which sorta means the vow is meaningless, a way for privileged Americans to feel better about themselves.</p><p>But the reality is that nonduality is just a perspective you see the world with. You have crucial insight on the nature of all things, and all of the “abilities” of enlightenment flow from this. You’d be surprised to see what enlightenment <b>doesn’t</b> do. It doesn’t make you free from vice, it doesn’t automatically make you moral, it doesn’t immediately sever yourself from the patterns of the past. There are <i>all</i> kinds of enlightened people in the world, many right here on Quora.</p><p>Moreover, unless you actively exercise your insight capabilities, you can’t gain the benefit from them. I personally choose to not ‘act’ like an enlightened person, to not talk like one. The nonduality is there, waiting for me to draw upon when I need it. But retreating into the mountains to become a hermit, well, that’s just not my bag. Enlightenment doesn’t define me. I possess it, it doesn’t possess me.</p><p>So when Buddhists say “chop wood, carry water,” they’re making a very profound joke about their entire religion.</p>
