---
layout: post
title: If the mind is separate to the body, then it&#39;s the same as saying the soul is separate to the body. Am I missing something here, because it sounds like people are replacing words now?
date: 2017-10-24
---

<p>The mind is an <i>abstract</i> concept. This means it does not have a real-world referent. The easiest analogue I have is the calendar. If you look at a calendar, it’s intended to convey a concept that doesn’t really exist in the natural world, only in the minds of people. What does nature understand of Monday? It doesn’t, only humans know what that means. Your dog might understand it as “that day after the two days that you leave for a really really long time.”</p><p>What Monday is is only known by humans, not anything else.</p><p>The mind is exactly the same. It holds meaning only as far as humans give it meaning. In fact, if you’re interested in Buddhism, you can come to understand the fact that minds don’t <i>really</i> exist, in a visceral way, through meditation. And so come a little closer to enlightenment.</p><p>In a similar way, the soul is also an abstract concept. But while the mind is one step removed from the brain, the soul is several steps removed from your mind. Your brain runs your mind like a computer program, if you looked at the shifting voltage levels of a computer, you would never be able to tell what program was running on it unless it was a really simple program. Similarly, you can’t tell what’s going on in the mind by looking at the brain.</p><p>And you’d never be able to tell what was going on in your soul by looking at your mind. The soul is unfathomable, because we have to use our minds to fathom it, and it’s far too abstract for our minds to really understand.</p><p>Instead we have to <i>approach</i> the soul, the same way we approach God. By <i>revering </i>and <i>pondering </i>and <i>discussing</i> and <i>pursuing</i> it. Not by experiencing it directly. Because the soul <i>contains</i> us. Water can’t understand its container. It can only fill it. The soul is bigger than is, and it is also <i>actually</i> us.</p><p>I dunno if this answers your question, but I hope it helps.</p>
