---
layout: post
title: What is the best online course to start design a website and be a freelancer web developer?
date: 2017-10-12
---

<p>I need to disabuse you of the notion that you can start out freelancing. Websites are complicated things and freelancers have to do an awful lot. Even after you learn how to build the websites, you next have to learn how to chase down and manage clients.</p><p>I know a guy who decided he wanted to freelance out of college. Took him <i>years</i> before he was able to get a place of his own. It’s a long, hard road. You’ll get lucky with one good big client, and then four months later they’re gone.</p><p>I don’t know what the job market is like in your country, but the economics of website development don’t change no matter what country you’re in.</p><p>When you’re just starting out, you work <i>for</i> freelancers, you don’t work as one. Because you’re still learning your <i>craft</i>. You don’t have time or headspace available to learn the <i>trade</i>.</p><p>Case in point, you asked where you could go to learn how to <i>design</i> a website when you want to be a freelance web <i>developer</i>. You can’t learn how to do both at once, not well enough to be able to deliver an entire website. Oh sure, you can pick a framework like WordPress and learn the basics of how to knock up a basic website. But these are technical considerations and can take weeks all by themselves to learn.</p><p>Then there’s design. Learning how to stand up a WordPress server involves learning how web servers work. Learning how to make it pretty involves learning how to use design tools and communicate visually. It’s a <b>totally</b> different domain. One course can’t teach you all of it.</p><p>I suppose I could go and Google up some resources for you. But if you were dedicated enough to this course of action that’s going to take years of your life before you’ll be modestly successful, you’d have done it already. And you’d have more nuanced questions to ask than “point me to some resources.”</p>
