---
layout: post
title: What&#39;s the point of living after enlightenment?
date: 2017-10-07
---

<p>Only the unenlightened can ask this question. Enlightenment has you assume the <i>nondual</i> perspective as your primary or base way of seeing things. Nonduality is the cessation of the need to put everything into two little boxes, good or bad. Normal ego-driven existence orders the world by those boxes, and people can only stop seeing it that way in what are called <i>transcendent</i> moments, also known as satoris.</p><p>So primary adoption of nonduality, enlightenment, transforms the world from an ugly hellhole to basically Wonderland. Or rather, not the world itself, but your perception of it. So living becomes pretty cool. When you don’t care whether something is good or bad, your decision making doesn’t have to merely move you towards the good away from the bad.</p><p>So what meaning do enlightened people find in existing? Well, not to put too fine a point on it, needing meaning to be present is just more good-bad-box thinking. There’s no need to find meaning in anything! Enlightened people just exist. Sometimes meaning is present, sometimes it isn’t.</p><p>Without the need to find it all the time, enlightened people often gravitate towards things that don’t seem super-meaningful at the time, but wind up being that way anyway. When I was a kid, I used to find programming books at the school library. This was the late 80s before computers really took off. For some reason those little boxes just fascinated me. I now make a nice comfortable living with them.</p><p>Nonduality does not preclude normal ego-driven existence. You don’t have to turn into a raving mad sage-hermit. But the option is preserved for you if you want it to be. I have a six-figure job, a swanky apartment and lots of female attention. If I lost it all tomorrow, I’d shrug my shoulders, say, “It’s been a good run,” and go do something else.</p><p>I can do that with anything. I personally like human ego. It’s flawed, sure, but I don’t have to live with those flaws myself. So I take what I like from it and leave the rest.</p>
