---
layout: post
title: Is there any scientific way to quickly experience enlightenment without any practice like using a physical tool or device?
date: 2017-09-15
---

<p>No, unless you want to try drugs. But even there you’re getting a stunted version, not the full experience. Real enlightenment never ends, it might go away for awhile when you die, but you pick back up pretty quick after you’re reborn.</p><p>And drugs don’t capture the subtlety of the subjective experience. You can be walking down the road on the way to work, and suddenly an insight flashes down on you that brings tears to your eyes. This might happen six times in a day.</p><p>The perspective of enlightenment, called <i>non-duality</i>, is reached through long, long periods of surrender. You need to reach a point in your manifest existence where nothing else but total ego surrender is meaningful to you. Then you go about purifying your consciousness until there’s nothing left.</p><p>Such a thing wrecks your ability to have a normal life. Normal life is driven by ego, by wanting things, non-duality is the path of watching, not wanting. By not wanting things, you set yourself apart from your peers. And then you die and are reborn again.</p><p>When you’re born again with the recent memory of enlightenment, your mind retains a bit of the experience, and a pathway is set up for you to reach it again. You may get interested in the state again, you might not. You already purified and cleansed your consciousness in a previous life, it’s not going to hold as much meaning for you this time.</p><p>So you want things again. But non-duality is going to knock on the door of your spirit again, and eventually you won’t be able to ignore it. The purification is easier this time and you find yourself again without an Earthly life.</p><p>You die and do this again until you start to find meaning in things again. Not ego-driven meaning, but rather intrinsic meaning, like the joy a child gets in painting. Real life beats the natural joyfulness of children out of them, but it can’t beat it out of the enlightened.</p><p>You eventually learn to mix and match ego and non-duality in a way that provides endless capacity for meaning. Doing it a bit different each time is the goal, seeing what unfolds.</p><p>Figuring out how to exist, when you have nothing but an endless expanse of time and resources, the full might of God right there at your beckon, that’s what it means to be enlightened.</p><p>But I hear DMT is pretty neat.</p>
