---
layout: post
title: Why did Antony Flew, a philosopher and an ex-atheist, change his mind? Did atheists feel betrayed at that point? Can we expect one day the same pattern from Richard Dawkins also?
date: 2017-11-06
---

<p>I was unfamiliar with him, thank you for giving me the opportunity to get acquainted. As someone who was once fully convinced of the atheist position, and having eventually recanted, I can perhaps give some perspective on what could have been going through his head.</p><p>First, no atheist converts overnight. Rejecting atheism is a long, slow process, that involves having to make the decision of what <i>kind</i> of spirituality you’re looking to embrace. You’re essentially rejecting the safe, welcoming bosom of rational certainty with one in which nothing is nailed down and nothing can be taken for granted.</p><p>Flew’s Wikipedia page describes one key piece of reasoning that he used: "the argument to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intelligent_Design" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">Intelligent Design</a> is enormously stronger than it was when I first met it."</p><p>So it seems he used a rational, rather than an experiential process, to reject atheism. For my own spiritual journey, I needed quite a bit of experience before I could use reason to conclude that a spiritual framing of existence held more water than materialism. I needed lots of meditation, lots of “fake it until you make it belief.”</p><p>But he was able to get it done while maintaining a more rational point of view. I can understand the appeal of wanting to hold on to rationalism, but my experiences have shown to me conclusively that while the belief that the world is ultimately rational in nature is <i>true</i>, holding firmly to it causes you to create dogma where you probably didn’t mean to. And there is a <b>lot</b> of dogma in materialism.</p><p>As to Dawkins, well, he seems way too set in his ways to even go that far.</p>
