---
layout: post
title: We can not be dogmatic about any subject (which is obviously a dogma). My question is: is it possible, through logic to prove that in essence and in reality there is no logic?
date: 2017-09-27
---

<p>Logic belongs to a class of things that I call <i>absolute</i>. What is absolute cannot be merely discarded, moreover, it laughs at your attempts to do so. Thus, it exists in every single context you can think of.</p><p>Absolute belongs to a family of concepts that I will dub <i>contextual categories</i>. Other concepts in this family include universal, imaginary, real, objective, relative, subjective. All of these concepts have subtly different meanings but what makes them all part of the family is that things in that category exhibit similar behavior across an entire space.</p><p>For example, something that is <i>real</i> describes that that doesn’t go away when you stop looking at it. All real things behave similarly and you can differentiate real things from imaginary by looking at them until the characteristics start to match one or the other.</p><p>For example, if you want a real man, stop paying attention to him and see if he sticks around.</p><p>Absolute rules over all the others. If something is real it doesn’t exhibit imaginary traits, but everything that is <b>both</b> real and imaginary exhibits all the traits of the absolute. In fact, this is my favored method of figuring out what is absolute, by contemplating how it behaves in both contexts. If it behaves similarly, I’ll come up with an abstract meaning that holds exactly the same, and call that absolute.</p><p>You simply can’t dispense with logic. You can call something illogical, but that’s a subjective determination, you can always find a thing’s logic if you look hard enough. Another is evolution. Things evolve. In any context you can think of, across all the categories.</p>
