---
layout: post
title: I have noticed that when good-looking, smart, successful, well-placed boys&#47;men stare at girls&#47;women, they receive no adverse reaction in return. Why is this the case?
date: 2017-08-15
---

<p>I’m not sure where you live, but I live in Atlanta, and wandering around the city are homeless people who try to get your money in various ways. Some of them stand on street corners with a sign, hoping for passing motorists to stop and hand them a few bucks.</p><p>Some of them just walk up to people walking by and ask for money. This happens to me often enough that you learn to avoid them. You start to recognize patterns. Sometimes they’ll just straight up ask, sometimes they’ll be like, “hey can I ask you a question?” Then it’s a long drawn out spiel, at the end of which is a plea for money.</p><p>If you’re dead-set on just never giving homeless people any money, like say if you never carry cash, then you learn how to spot cash-seeking behavior in everyone around you, and how to avoid it.</p><p>But if a well-dressed young man comes up to you and says “hey, can I ask you a question?” Then among the many things you think this guy is going to talk to you about, begging you for your pocket change isn’t one of them.</p><p>Back to your question. You want to know why weird-looking men get censured for giving unwanted attention to women, whereas successful-looking men don’t. I’m not a woman, but I daresay that to the extent that this might be true, (I’m not at all sure it is true) it would be because women assume that the successful guy has better things to do than to stalk them, so staring is all she has to deal with.</p><p>Even if he were to start following her around, a “good-looking, smart, successful, well-placed” guy (how would she know he’s smart?) is assumed to not be inclined to get violent or super-mean to her. Obviously that assumption can come back to bite her in the ass, which is why I don’t think that your stated lack of reaction is actually true.</p><p>But it’s not unreasonable to expect that a successful guy poses less of a threat to her than a weirdo.</p>
