---
layout: post
title: What is the definition of life?
date: 2017-10-10
---

<p>Life is the quality of a system that allows it to sustain itself in a state other than stasis. This is beautifully illustrated by Conway’s Game of Life. The system is either alive or static. Any little change you make will give the system a bit of life, and, depending on where you hit it, it can make a lot of life.</p><p>The concept of life is intimately bound with the concept of entropy. Entropy normally moves in one direction. Things move from orderly to chaotic. Gather up a bunch of energy and put it on one side of the field, and the environment will spread that energy out and eventually the entire field will all share the energy. Important to note that it’s like that line in <i>The Incredibles</i>, when everyone’s special, no one is.</p><p>What’s interesting is the differences between a thing and other things. A field where every point has the same energy value might as well be a field were every point is at zero. There’s nothing to interact with anything else. Systems display life when there’s interaction.</p><p>Now, there’s another aspect of life that’s important, <i>agency</i>. Agency refers to the quality of a <i>thing</i> to persist as that same thing. Notice the difference in terminology. Life simply requires a system, not agents. Agents in a system create their own systems and barriers from the rest of the environment. Conway’s game of life contains no agents, the rules of the environment preclude the creation of barriers, so everything in the system is vulnerable to rogue intrusions. Cellular automata are simply not complex enough to allow such things.</p><p>Agents allow localized reversal of the standard entropy dynamic. Agents can also collaborate and transform a particular <i>environment</i> into a homeostatic one, one that resists change from the outside. The Earth is just such an environment.</p>
