---
layout: post
title: Can a universal language so powerful be invented that everyone, irrespective of their ethnic backgrounds, would have an immediate visceral response and instinctive recognition of its meaning without being acquainted with its grammar and vocabulary?
date: 2017-11-06
---

<p>What you want is a regression back to primitive animal communication systems.</p><p>There are two ways for any kind of organism to have any kind of behavior. Learned or instinctive. The vast majority of behaviors have components of both. If it’s instinctive, that means it’s so important to the functioning of the organism that nature saw fit to not take any chances.</p><p>Two examples in humans are the male sex drive, and infant suction. Both are so critical to the survival of the species that nature didn’t leave us any choice. Mothers do not have to teach infants to feed, and males do not have to be taught to pursue sex. It’s written right there in our gene codes, and it takes genetics to change it. (like say, if a male is asexual)</p><p>Instinctual behaviors are <b>not</b> cheap. Many times, they are kept purposefully “stupid” because to make them more sophisticated tremendously increases their cost. The classic example is how sea gull chicks decide who to demand food from. Adult gulls have a red dot on their beaks, the chicks are simply genetically coded to consider thing they see with a red dot to be their mother. It’s a stupidly easy algorithm to fool, yet gulls haven’t managed to go extinct yet. Making the instinct more sophisticated would also increase the chances of it not working when you need it to.</p><p>You do not want to make language instinctual. That would rob it of everything that makes it amazing.</p>
