---
layout: post
title: As an introvert, do you wish that you weren&#39;t?
date: 2017-12-04
---

<p>I don’t. I like being me, this includes my introversion preference.</p><p>I’ve done a lot of inquiry on this over the years. I wondered whether my introversion was really a preference or if it was rather an imperative. I examined my past and found periods in my life where I was more outgoing and social. I analyzed current situations and worked out specifically why I choose to interact the way I do with other people.</p><p>What I found is that there’s nothing really keeping me from being more social if that’s what I wanted to do. I don’t shut down in front of lots of people or anything. Large crowds are unpleasant to me, but it’s not like I can’t be a part of them or that I can’t find ways to enjoy and participate. I can. I just choose not to.</p><p>I simply prefer the kinds of conversations you can only have among two people, or perhaps three if they’re all really close. That’s really the main factor, the kinds of conversations you can have. I’d much rather just be by myself than in a group conversation with more than three people in it, unless it was in a perfect setting like a dinner party that I might throw.</p><p>I’m <b>extremely</b> selective about the kinds of experiences I want to be a part of my life. If I go to a bar, I want to have a seat at the bar, not a table, otherwise my time there will be very limited. It’s much easier to do that if I’m by myself. If I had ready access to an environment that allowed me to both be social and be comfortable, I’d be doing that all the time. Such as one of those upscale social clubs that I’m just not rich enough to be a part of.</p>
