---
layout: post
title: Is there any good out of being enlightened at 16?
date: 2017-04-28
---

<p>I consider myself to have been enlightened since birth.</p><p>The thing about being enlightened is that you still have a brain, and you are still human. One of the ways you can tell the real from the fake in the spiritual world is that fake people will try to impress you with illogical nonsense about enlightenment where once you’ve found the magic meditation breakthrough, you no longer want things or something silly like that.</p><p>Real enlightenment isn’t like that. You want things, but you can choose to ignore it if you want. You don’t <i>identify</i> with your wants. If something doesn’t go your way you just shrug your shoulders and move on with life.</p><p>When I was sixteen I was just like every other kid, only nothing could really affect me. I still went through puberty, I still had a sex drive, but it felt like I could turn these things off if I wanted to.</p><p>I didn’t know or understand the difference until much later in life. I started getting interested in spiritual stuff, found this thing people called enlightenment, and out of curiosity I started exploring it for myself. After a few years grappling with the material, I realized that none of it was written for someone like me. I’d do the meditations and fall super easy into them and learn the lesson immediately.</p><p>My path has not been, or has ever been of someone struggling for clarity or awakeness or whatever. I already had these things, my path is to figure out what that means and how to move forward.</p><p>I’ve read about people getting enlightened at very early ages, like age 6 or something. If you’re going to do it early, that would be the best way to do it. Grappling with sudden enlightenment is extremely difficult and it kills your ability to have a normal life. I am only able to have one because it’s part of my path and what I want to do with my life.</p><p>Doing it at 16? I’m not at all certain you’d survive. Remember you still have a brain and that brain is still growing and maturing. The enlightenment itself wouldn’t kill you so much as the resultant total lack of focus. You’d have zero care about your body or your life and might get too far off into the weeds exploring your lack of fucks given and wind up killing yourself.</p><p>You might get involved in drugs and kill yourself that way. I guess it would depend a lot on your surrounding environment and if it’s too stifling or not.</p><p>Even if you didn’t kill yourself, you’d be highly likely to make decisions out of lack of care that are going to really mess your life up. You won’t care though.</p><p>In short, I can’t see a lot of benefits but I can see a ton of downsides. If it just happened naturally because that was your path, then you’d be mostly fine. It’s my belief that people “become enlightened” many times over many lives when they’re in that phase of spiritual evolution until they’ve completely learned how to handle the state. Then they’ll be like me getting enlightened from birth.</p>
