---
layout: post
title: How can people remember their past life memories?
date: 2017-09-02
---

<p>I don’t bother trying. In the first place, you can never really know. Anything concerning the barrier between worlds has to be approached with all the air of a thought experiment.</p><p>What I can say is that most people interested in this topic subconsciously just want to feel better about this life that they hate. So you see a lot of former Queens and Princes and Nikola Teslas.</p><p>Another thing they’ll do is use the concept of a past life instead of just having a spirit mentor. A great illustration of the topic that I’ve seen is in the movie <i>True Romance</i> where Clarence has a spirit mentor relationship with Elvis. If your imagination isn’t up to the task of creating a spirit mentor, you might instead imagine that you were your desired personality.</p><p>I’m interested in none of that. I don’t have a personality that I aspire to other than my own. I just want to understand how consciousness works and how experience contributes to essence.</p><p>The last time I considered this, I imagined myself an unknown minor French nobleman from back in the 17–1800s sometime. I didn’t have a whole lot to do and so immersed myself in learning and spirituality. I don’t think I was married but I probably did have a lot of romantic flings.</p><p>The idea is to try to explain certain facts about your life. The more clearly you see your own life and strengths and weaknesses, the more clarity you’ll probably be able to get about your immediate previous life.</p><p>Further back, I don’t think it’s possible to really figure anything out, nor does it really matter.</p><p>One of my ongoing questions is if “cross-world” reincarnation is common or not. I’m wondering if the current infusion of autistic kids we’re seeing aren’t really just souls from other parts of the galaxy that aren’t used to human society. They need a lifetime or three here to acclimate. It seems to fit, but of course it’s just a thought experiment. As we learn more about autism I’ll update my theories.</p>
