---
layout: post
title: Why do you think the chakra system is nonsense?
date: 2017-10-01
---

<p>Chakras are just one way of many to explore the interconnectedness of all things.</p><p>Meditating on chakras essentially creates ‘hooks’ in your brain that allow you to sense and affect your body fairly deeply. It does not and cannot do anything ‘useful’ that can’t also be done with ‘just’ meditative mind-over-body stuff.</p><p>I used to trade techniques for opening up chakras with a buddy of mine. He’d come up with wicked-vivid visualizations for amping up the power. Visualizing your chakras as Stargates like from the movies was the first step. Then you’d create little white balls and drop them into the gates. Then you’d start working on black balls.</p><p>I swear the first time I put a black ball into my chakras it rocked my world. It made me curious. I did these exercises every day and slightly switched it up to answer questions about it. I eventually realized that 90% of the experience was just my subconscious wanting to give me a good experience.</p><p>But, then, that’s the nature of all belief. Something irrational you take as an article of faith in order for you to have a deep experience you wouldn’t have been able to otherwise. By the time I was done with chakras, I had a real intimate knowledge of something I can only call my “energy.” If you held a gun to my head and asked me to explain it, I’d say it boils down to your mind knowing way more than it has words to present your conscious mind with. So it presents you with information under the guise of ‘energy’.</p><p>The actual <b>system</b> of chakras is just silly nonsense. Well, it’s not nonsense, but you can come up with your own chakra system and with as many chakras as you want, wherever you want to put them, and your subconscious mind will make it work. I read about people who used three chakras, or just one.</p><p>Opening up additional channels for subconscious communication is absolutely priceless, well worth the entry fee of a few silly beliefs. If I had to choose between a brutish materialistic worldview and a silly coffee-shop nutter hippie mentality including a firm belief in chakras, bring on the frankincense and moronic bumper stickers.</p>
