---
layout: post
title: If you are spiritual awakening person, black magic still work you? How do you know?
date: 2017-12-25
---

<p>Different people explore different things when they get awakened. I believe that the unreality of spiritual elements is its strength, not its weakness. You’re supposed to learn and grow, not be in danger of losing anything. If you were ever in danger then you’d be more cautious, and that’s totally the wrong thing to do.</p><p>The framing I use for this sort of thing is <i>finding meaning</i>. If you can find meaning in black magic, then you will work through the spiritual phenomenon of black magic. It will affect you and you might be able to do some of your own if that’s what you choose to do.</p><p>I personally don’t find any meaning in it. Nothing of that ‘sort’ will ever even come close to actually affecting me. This doesn’t mean that you couldn’t cast some kind of spell on me and not perceive an effect. No, you might well perceive your spell to affect me. But whatever is happening to me will be something I <i>also</i> find meaning in.</p><p>I find small difficulties placed in my way by spirit all the time. It’s part of my path to encounter them and deal with them, either by actually working to eliminate them or by letting them run their course. Whenever I get sick, for instance, it yanks me out of my normal mind space and puts me in a far more present-oriented space.</p><p>Will I perceive the black magic spell you cast at me that happens to make me sick as black magic? No. I’ll just experience it as “me getting sick.” Could you cast multiple spells at me to keep making me sick? Again, no. I get sick maybe twice a year. Your second spell will simply fail, and you’ll perceive your failure to be as something that is meaningful to you somehow. My chi developed an immunity to your spell or whatever.</p><p>None of this stuff is actually real, it doesn’t play by any set of rules that you can actually learn and use well enough to be able to override others need to find meaning in their path. It is instead in a middle ground between reality and total nonexistence.</p><p>At least, this was the conclusion I came to when I explored “psychic powers” extensively a few years ago. It’s really easy to do trivial, meaningless things with them. But get serious about doing anything real, and you’ll suddenly find what used to be easy suddenly become hellishly difficult, and the results totally not worth bothering.</p><p>That said, we all have a path to walk. Our path is how our spirituality becomes real. I ran into one gent awhile ago that used magick to get rich. It was quite eye-opening to converse with him and I was able to do away with a few inner blocks that I’d had as a result. But having something be a part of your path is not something you can consciously control.</p>
