---
layout: post
title: How do you get into Heaven?
date: 2017-06-18
---

<p>I’ve written before about getting into Heaven, I’ve extracted it into a blog post here:</p><p><a href="https://spiritual-musings.quora.com/Getting-Into-Heaven">Getting Into Heaven by Vincent Guidry on Spiritual Musings</a></p><p>So let’s talk a little bit about Heaven. Heaven is defined by <i>proximity to God</i>. The biggest difference between here and Heaven is that here, you can’t tell whether God is real or not. In heaven, there’s no way to mistake it, God’s presence is strong and unmistakable. You can communicate directly with God and He answers your questions.</p><p>You have to use a peculiar logic to divide sections of the afterlife. Because it’s not like a planet with physical rules or anything. Instead you define the sections by your own intention. You’re going to naturally gravitate to somewhere where there are others like you. Those people collectively alter the shape of the environment.</p><p>In Heaven no sin is possible. If you were to try to sin, your actions wouldn’t have the desired effects. If you tried to kill someone, you’d find that you couldn’t even hurt them. God is infinitely gentle and infinitely powerful. You are a puppy trying to attack a bear. The bear just lets you latch on to his paw and plays with you a bit. He extends that protection to everyone in Heaven.</p><p>What you do in Heaven is <i>glorify</i> God. That’s really all there is to do. It’s not that there literally isn’t anything else to do, you can do pretty much anything you want in Heaven and God finds a way to make it happen. But after awhile you’ll just get bored, and turn to the one thing that couldn’t ever possibly get boring, God. God’s gonna wait for you to get bored then turn you towards a group of other souls in heaven cooperating on some kind of project.</p><p>God has a different perspective on things than you do. He thinks long term, <b>incredibly</b> long term. Whatever it is you’re doing He has a plan for and you’ll get to witness that plan. Perhaps you’re preparing an elaborate vision for some young kid to have to bring to his priests. The priests get together and issue a pronouncement, which saves a ton of lives.</p><p>He might have you answering prayers. Or taking part in coming up with an appropriate way to help someone.</p><p>It’s all really interesting stuff, <i>to Christians</i>. They’ve trained their whole lives for this. This is why I say that all it takes to get into Heaven is to want to go and to be there. If you want to be close to God, then God’s not going to tell you no. But the closer you are to God, the farther away you are to <i>an individual identity</i>. Your life becomes increasingly dominated by God, and less and less separate from your fellows.</p><p>I do not believe anyone stays in Heaven forever. God will eventually work out that you need something new and punt you into a new body to start all over again. But I’m not sure about this. Merging with God seems to me to be like death. Perhaps God is not a singular entity and there’s differentiation even inside of God. I suspect this is the case but I can’t imagine how that’s not just “another section of Heaven.” Still mulling this over.</p><p>If you can’t bring yourself to be close to God’s overwhelming presence all the time, there’s two possible reasons. First, you’re not done individuating. God’s presence will feel like an assault on your very identity, and you’ll simply not want to go near it. If you’re on the fence, you’ll go to a place that the Christians consider to be part of Hell called Limbo. Limbo is a lot like Earth. The big difference is that there’s no life or death cycle. So if you get hurt, you suffer but don’t die. Souls are indestructible. God ensures this is so, even in Hell.</p><p>The other reason you might not want to go to Hell is because you feel you don’t deserve it. God’s presence fills you not with love, but with guilt. You’ll remember all the bad things you did during your life. If you tried to participate in a project, You wouldn’t be able to focus or concentrate. You need to <i>atone</i>, to purify your self and spirit so that it can handle close proximity to God. This is the real purpose of Hell and what you do there.</p><p>The tormented and guilty mind needs cleansing. The lake of fire is a perfect place to do that in. The real world is generous in that your flesh does not suffer the same way the mind does. But in the afterlife there’s no flesh. Only your mind exists. So a tormented mind is by definition <i>already in the lake of fire</i>. Your body in Heaven or Hell is just a projection of your mind, it does not operate by the same rules that it did physically.</p><p>If you could turn to God and ask him for absolution, you would. But the tormented mind does not think to ask. And God does not want to intercede on individuals any more than he has to. So he provides a place for the tormented to torment themselves until they’re ready to turn back to God. A soul who goes to Hell looks at the pearly gates, can’t stand the light and love, and so falls into Hell, and falls as far as his conflicted soul allows.</p><p>Honestly I think most souls will end up reincarnating. I don’t think most people nowadays are up to the task of purifying themselves so that they can be in proximity to God. They want to further individuate, find themselves separate from God. Eternity scares them. Physicality breeds comfort, being alone with one’s thoughts is often terrifying. Most humans aren’t going to want Heaven or Hell, and will simply wander around the afterlife for awhile then get bored and reincarnate.</p>
