---
layout: post
title: What are your thoughts on the Elliot Argument for the existence of God?
    
        
    
http:&#47;&#47;theatheistkilla.blogspot.com&#47;2012&#47;12&#47;the-elliott-argument-official.html?m=1
date: 2017-12-14
---

<p>When I read through the existing answers, I saw nothing that even comes close to a decent answer. Atheists just have no imagination, sadly. No attempt to take the argument on it’s merits, just sad dismissals on emotional grounds.</p><p>I’m not an atheist, but I personally find the Elliot Argument to be hopelessly mired in what it thinks is logic. On literally every single point it tries to make, I could come up with a book diving into the concepts, while he thinks a mere paragraph is sufficient to claim validity.</p><p>Furthermore, he seems confused, Elliot does not seem to know what he’s arguing against. Is it atheism or is it materialism? I can answer this question by examining the precise thing he’s arguing <i>with</i> in order to understand what he’s arguing <i>against</i>.</p><p>His entire schtick revolves around metaphysics. He wants to convince you by dint of his logic concerning the beginnings of the physical universe that we can see and reason about using experimentation and observation.</p><p>Sadly, metaphysics is probably the single hardest thing to reason about when it comes to the spiritual realm, and the easiest for materialists to completely discredit arguments around. Metaphysics concern where the “rubber meets the road” of God. You can faff about all you want with expositions about how God affects things through glorified luck and atheists are just going to roll their eyes and go back to whatever it is they’re doing.</p><p>But metaphysics are where God becomes undeniably <i>real</i>. Playing with metaphysics isn’t just your daughter seeing the bad boy at school, it’s bringing him home to meet the parents and demanding they take him seriously as a suitor. Materialists just have no sense of humor or patience about that kind of thing.</p><p>How in the world do you think your metaphysical arguments could even approach basic relevance for a scientific frame of mind? He claims that all atheist positions resolve to a position on the genesis of the universe. I loathe materialism as much as the next Christian, but even I wouldn’t claim that.</p><p>Science cannot and does not make any claims regarding things that by definition are not observable or testable. This includes any speculation on the genesis of the universe. Here’s a short list of things, off the top of my head, that could possibly be true but don’t fall into his two reductionist categories:</p><ul><li>The universe being a cosmic 10-year-old’s science project</li><li>Literally all physical universes that could exist, do exist.</li><li>That The Matrix wasn’t just a movie, it was a reasonably accurate description of reality.</li></ul><p>Essentially these possibilities riff off a basic theme, that the rules and logic of the physical world that we observe every day don’t have to work the same way outside this universe. Why in the world would we assume that our logic and ideas have even the barest kind of relevance “on the outside”?</p><p>He also uses extremely questionable and unsubstantiated ideas, like the so-called “law of uniformitarianism.” This one props up one of his bedrock axioms, that something can’t come from absolute nothing. Look, just because something doesn’t make sense to you doesn’t mean it’s false. There’s literally nothing but human intuition supporting the claim that something can’t come from nothing. We have absolutely no idea what absolute nothing is actually like. We can only imagine it.</p><p>That means that absolute nothing is well-within the realm of belief and speculation and theology. Atheists are right to consider all such things as pure products of the mind and thus totally unreal.</p><p>Long story short: he wants to extend human reasoning well beyond the realm in which human intuition could possibly hold in order to speak authoritatively about matters he can’t possibly actually know. Once you start trying to logically examine existence before our space-time started, all human ideas break down badly.</p>
