---
layout: post
title: Do you think science and spirituality can be bridged? Would you be interested in showing your support on this?
    
        
    
https:&#47;&#47;nellaishanmugam.wordpress.com&#47;2017&#47;06&#47;13&#47;is-there-a-scientific-evidence-for-spiritual-enlightenment&#47;
date: 2017-10-02
---

<p>No. At least, not for a long time.</p><p>The ultimate difference between the scientific and spiritual ways of looking at things is <i>falsifiability</i>. The scientific paradigm holds falsifiability to be axiomatic, if something is not falsifiable, it can never hold truth.</p><p>Whereas the spiritual paradigm holds falsifiability to be mostly in the way. Something can hold truth merely by virtue of <i>resonating</i> deeply with a person’s values.</p><p>What this means is that while the scientific can inform the spiritual,if the spiritual person wants it to, the spiritual will never be taken seriously by the scientific.</p><p>People typically are oriented one way or the other, prioritizing either falsifiable viewpoints or unfalsifiable ones. They either hold a deep belief in science, or in their own inborn value structure. That’s the real difference. Knowledge is knowledge and truth values are, unfortunately for materialists, always going to be relative.</p><p>You simply cannot merge science with anything unless that thing can make falsifiable claims.</p><p>Something can be <i>logical</i> while still not being falsifiable. This is the realm I play in. If you read my content for awhile you’d see that I’m pretty careful to never make statements that sound scientific, yet they still sound quite logical. Scientific understanding is the realm of scientists, they can run tightly controlled experiments that purport to <i>prove</i> things.</p><p>As a spiritualist, I’m used to being wrong a lot. This is because science is done by humans. If humans could do perfect science then I’d base my beliefs on that. Instead I have to constantly adjust to the changing scientific landscape.</p><p>One thing I had based beliefs on that I found out today wasn’t actually true was my understanding of so-called ‘split-brain’ people, those who’ve had their <i>corpus callosum</i> severed. My understanding was that split-brain patients effectively had two people living inside of them. I based my understanding of consciousness on that, making allowances I didn’t really have to make, because it turns out that when modern researchers tried to replicate those experiments, split brain patients actually do manage to present as <b>one</b> person, rather than two.</p><p>This uncomplicated my understanding of consciousness, and presents an interesting conundrum to the scientific community, if they want to take it on. Two brains, without much to share with each other, manage somehow to build one identity. Weird to scientists, but perfectly understandable to those who don’t need proof. One person, one soul. Easy.</p><p>I’d do science myself but generally this requires resources which I don’t have. (yet)</p><p>But even if I had the resources I would never have enough to actually dive into the sorts of claims that spirituality makes. How could we ever prove the existence of souls? Souls are not falsifiable entities.</p><p>Science cannot prove such a thing. I can only believe they exist and then try to come to a logical understanding of them. Eventually, I believe, that a logical understanding of things like souls can be acquired that can be said to hold truth. It does not need to actually reach the scientific realm, the logical realm is good enough.</p><p>Materialists <i>de facto</i> disbelieve in anything science hasn’t proven. This is an even worse kind of unexamined life than the one I live. I am <b>constantly</b> revisiting my understanding of the unfalsifiable aspects of the world that I believe in. Materialists just assume that because it’s not physical, that if you believe in it you’re an idiot.</p><p>Materialists could never grasp the full depth and color of existence, because they’re too busy disbelieving things that they think are stupid.</p>
