---
layout: post
title: Why do we not need a men&#39;s movement?
date: 2017-05-02
---

<p>Mens movements already exist. The collective of all the mens movements is the mens movement.</p><p>We <b>do</b> need a mens movement. How do we know? We have a mens movement. That’s how you know.</p><p>We’ve discussed this before. The core of activist movements consist of diehard <i>activists</i>. These are people who have given up their whole lives for the cause. They live and breathe their issues, the nuances of those issues, and solutions to the problem of getting people who don’t care about them to care, at least enough to contribute.</p><p>Without them, any political will created will be random, undirected, and easily disrupted. What created the current activism establishment is the heroic efforts of people who gave up all personal ambition in service of a dream.</p><p>There are already people organizing and directing the energy of dissatisfied men. The people running blogs and message boards and the like. What differs between them and real activists is that they haven’t dedicated <i>their entire lives</i> to the cause of furthering men’s issues. They have jobs, they have lives. Maybe they’re opportunists looking to escape the 9–5 grind.</p><p>That’s all fine, all of these types of people contribute. But without figures like Martin Luther King Jr, who was arrested 29 times in his life in connection to activism, the movement won’t be able to come together around a set of coherent ideas and goals.</p><p>Activism shoves the agenda of the minority down the throat of the majority. It takes a special kind of person to do that.</p><p>Who’s going to step up? It sure as hell won’t be me.</p>
