---
layout: post
title: I feel that my boyfriend is losing interest in me, should I put more effort to get him back the way he used to or should I lie low for him to realize my worth? I don&#39;t want to lose him.
date: 2017-09-10
---

<p>You’re the one that needs to realize your worth, not him. What you’re asking for is a way to manipulate him. You want a course of action that you can take that will get desired results from your boyfriend. It’s a natural thing to want, and I’m sure you’ll be able to find some people on here willing to coach you on how to do that.</p><p>But having to manipulate your boyfriend into having feelings for you is not they key to a happy relationship. It’s the key to keeping a bad relationship going.</p><p>What you need to do is work on yourself. I don’t know what your life situation is like, but if you’re in school, focus on your studies and learning things, and maybe some kind of hobby. It’s not healthy to devote large amounts of time to a romantic relationship that doesn’t seem like it’s working. Invariably you start spending time on that that you should be spending on building your future.</p><p>If I felt like a girl was losing interest in me, I’d pull back for awhile and see what happens after a few days. I’d like to say that it’s a magic bullet, but unfortunately it’s not. Young people will always have lots more taking up their attention than a relationship.</p><p>Which is why I often counsel people to just wait until they’re settled in a career before they start dating. You’re trading one set of problems for another set, but at least you’re not mortgaging your future for a present fling.</p>
