---
layout: post
title: Do confident people get mad if they get called ugly?
date: 2017-05-08
---

<p>I’m gonna level with you and tell you that confident people are never called ugly. You just never think to insult a confident person.</p><p>Unless you’re in grade school. Middle and high school kids think nothing of saying really awful shit to each other. But as soon as you’re out of that horrible place, people either suddenly find the manners they weren’t taught, or they fall off the face of the Earth. Unless you seek them out of course.</p><p>I’m going to totally throw away my credibility as a nice guy here, but I once knew a feller who was just the loneliest guy on the planet. He latched onto me and really, <b>really</b> wanted to be my friend. I shut him down harder than that hot chick I asked out in middle school did when the first words out of my mouth to her were, “do you want to go to the homecoming dance with me.”</p><p>I didn’t just shut him down, I was positively mean to the poor guy. To this day I don’t know what got into me. I just get a feeling about some shit and when I get that feeling, I just follow through no matter what happens, and this time the feeling was to crush this guy.</p><p>Three years later I run into him and he’s got a new girlfriend and he seems to have gotten his life together. Did that mean I was nicer to him? Oh hell no. I was even <i>meaner</i> to him. I insulted his girlfriend right to his face. She didn’t hear me, I wasn’t aiming to insult her, just him. Again, I really don’t know what got into me other than this vague feeling that I never question when it happens. All I can say is that I have it in me to be a real bastard.</p><p>I do know that if he’d displayed some actual, bankable confidence, guaranteed I wouldn’t have been so darned mean to him. I now fully believe that there’s something evolutionary about bullying. This guy totally didn’t <i>deserve</i> my meanness, but at the same time I sensed he somehow <i>needed</i> it.</p><p>I’m careful not to let my meanness escalate to maliciousness, which is the line I think real bullying crosses. Something in my subconscious told me I’d be helping the guy by doing this, so I did it. Other people, I would not have done that to, but this guy, I felt could do better with what he had. So I challenged him.</p><p>I would not have challenged him had he the confidence to handle his life without placing a burden on me. So yeah.</p>
