---
layout: post
title: How do I get rid of laziness as a programmer?
date: 2017-06-30
---

<p>Laziness is one of the three great <a href="http://wiki.c2.com/?LazinessImpatienceHubris" data-qt-tooltip="c2.com">virtues</a> of the programmer. It is never a bad thing for a programmer to develop his laziness. When the programmer is lazy, the business guys learn how to be self-sufficient and the technology is made more stable. You should be encouraging the business guys to learn more about their technology, not doing more and more for them.</p><p>What you need to do is to cultivate hobbies. At my job, we play copious amounts of ping pong. The activity sharpens our mind and we go back to our tasks refreshed. Many tasks can get knocked out this way.</p><p>Eventually a point in every job is reached when you have completed all the tasks that have been assigned to you. The tendency is to ask your boss for more tasks. Do not give in to this nasty temptation. Open ambition is rewarded with more and more work.</p><p>Go play ping pong, or whichever hobby you’ve chosen to take on. And think about your kingdom and what makes it safe and who is relying on it. Catalogue all the threats in your mind, and realize that by far the biggest threat to your safety and comfort is your own damn mind. And this foolish desire to do more is the most devious threat of all.</p><p>Once you’ve achieved a nice, safe, thriving kingdom, you can turn your mind to that other great measure by which the programmer defines his career, <b>impact</b>.</p><p>You don’t want to work harder. You want to build an engine, with which you can move the world. Seek out open source projects and contribute small things to them. Over time as you get more comfortable, contribute more.</p><p>You see, more and more energy directed at your employer is inevitably going to reach a point of diminishing returns, for both yourself and your employer. You are a wizard, conjuring up the solutions the business needs out of thin air. They cannot handle such awesome power, this is why they hired you. Your job is to judiciously grant access to your power and knowledge but not give them enough rope, for they will surely hang themselves with it.</p><p>So redirect that energy. First, a hobby to train your mind. Then, open source, so you can train your soul.</p><p>Your employer will notice that you are happier and healthier and more mentally fit. They will want to add responsibilities to your plate. Only accept responsibilities that you can comfortably take on. Work it into your engine. Do not accept work that feels abusive. If they insist, switch employers.</p>
