---
layout: post
title: My boss asked me to setup a GPU farm for training deep neural network with a budget of 50k USD, how should I get started?
date: 2017-05-21
---

<p>This is how I would approach the problem.</p><p>First get it working using Amazon instances. You want to be able to easily separate your application from the hardware it’s running on. If you go out and start buying hardware, then you will inevitably introduce coupling that will make it difficult to scale or maintain.</p><p>Once you have the application running and producing results on cloud instances, then you want to introduce automation. This <i>should</i> be pretty easy, though I haven’t done anything like this for a long time. You could probably do this step and the first one at the same time, but that’s not my style, I want every piece to work independently of each other.</p><p>Only after you can orchestrate and scale the app using cloud hardware, go out and start buying real hardware. In your case, I would stick to off-the-shelf hardware, you don’t have the scale or the budget to make customization worthwhile. You really need to get into multiple millions for that sort of activity to be the best use of your time. I’d go with something you know you’re going to be able to buy more of in a few years, like Dell.</p><p>Finally, you want to get what you built in steps one and two working with the hardware you bought in step three. How I would approach it is to take the application, get it running on your hardware, and then work it into your orchestration tool.</p><p>When you’re done you’ll have a flexible architecture that can easily scale, both temporarily by adding Amazon instances to the pool, and permanently by buying more hardware.</p>
