---
layout: post
title: Even with all the strides feminism has made, why do the majority of beautiful woman always go for the shallow cliche of a rich man? Just look at the celebrities, there’s no denying this fact.
date: 2017-12-15
---

<p>The answer to this should depress you, if you’re a feminist and believe in feminist causes, and truly understand what sexism is.</p><p>Feminism is a movement of a minority of people who are heavily invested in seeing social changes brought to the rest of us. I believe in feminism. Some might say that makes me a feminist. But one thing that I am not is a feminist activist.</p><p>Most people who believe in feminism are not feminist activists. Activism prioritizes your political goals over your personal goals. Activism is required in order to truly raise awareness among regular people.</p><p>My goal as a feminist cannot ever be meaningfully more than to “do my part to not participate in the sexist establishment.” While the goal of the feminist activist is to create more people like me. That cannot be my goal, because I have my own life goals.</p><p>Oh sure, I talk a big game on Quora but my contribution to the cause cannot even come close to matching even a single member of the activist community. They’re willing to sacrifice for the cause, I am not.</p><p>Only a minority of people can ever become feminist activists, a small minority. If it ever were to become more than a small minority, feminists would overrun the government and see all of their policy goals fulfilled.</p><p>Because feminism has to participate in the marketplace of ideas. In the marketplace of ideas, every issue can only command a certain amount of headspace in the minds of ordinary people. It’s what’s in the minds of ordinary people when they go to elect representatives. And the ideas they have to compete against include existing traditional norms, which involve ideas like “you can’t go wrong marrying a rich man.”</p><p>Someone can easily hold feminist ideals in their head while still coveting a rich husband. Sure, if that person was a feminist activist, then she would be taught that that’s the wrong way to look at it. But feminist activists, the people that actually take sexism and the fight against it deadly <b>seriously</b>, are quite rare, and it will always be that way until the reason for feminism is as archaic as manual typewriters.</p>
