---
layout: post
title: Nature clearly assists the opposite sexes to get together. Why have so many of us lost our natural, and gifted confidence? Nature assists and we cause ourselves problems. How and why?
date: 2017-09-22
---

<p>For the same reason we have civilization, because nature gifted us with minds that can ignore our inborn instincts.</p><p>Some of us choose to ignore those instincts for so long that it seems like we’ve lost them.</p><p>But they haven’t disappeared, you just never connected with them. My advice is to just ignore everything else for awhile and focus on the simple act of talking to people. Not online, in meatspace. Try turning off your filter and just saying what comes to mind. Try putting a really strict filter in and see how that works.</p><p>Try a lot of approaches to connecting and interacting with people. You’ll find ways to enjoy it. Once you start enjoying it, other people will enjoy interacting with you.</p><p>Once this happens, you can start trying to get sexual. Not gonna lie, it’s gonna suck for awhile. You won’t know what to say and even when you do, you won’t be able to say it. You just have to keep at it.</p><p>Yes, it’s a lot of work. But that’s how you build social skills, you just have to fail at it until you figured out all the ways to fail. People that are good at connection went through it too, just back when they were teenagers. You chose a different path through life. It’s not bad, it’s just different.</p><p>The nice thing is that you have all these resources online to help you. Kids wouldn’t know what to do with those resources if they had them. So it’s really a blessing in disguise.</p><p>Good luck!</p>
