---
layout: post
title: Is atheism a belief or a conclusion?
date: 2017-07-06
---

<p>It’s closer to a belief than a conclusion. Conclusions are logical things come to through a brief spat of reasoning, beliefs are illogical things that we structure our lives around because the human mind can’t stand to exist in an uncertain state. Atheism is something you structure your life and thinking around, so in that respect it’s more akin to belief.</p><p>But there’s a certain amount of cognitive dissonance engendered by the atheist position. Flat-out concluding that God doesn’t exist, that the world is ‘merely’ physical, creates just the sort of thing that the atheist is trying to avoid.</p><p>So you see the extremely common stance that “Atheism is nothing more than lack of belief in a God.” He <b>wants</b> to say that no God exists, all you believers are just being foolish, but he’s constrained by the need to be politically correct. So they just turn a perfectly reasonable question back around on you because they aren’t equipped to deal with it.</p><p>Catch them in private with a sympathetic ear, and they all turn into spiritual bigots. Believers become stupid and religion is blamed for all that is wrong with the world. It sounds a lot like listening to a racist. It is the extremely rare atheist that can muster up any kind of respect for his spiritual brethren.</p><p>Atheists cannot stand uncertainty and illogic. The idea that the world might not make complete sense is really scary for them. Materialism is the stance that fits inside the human mind best, the belief that only the things they can see and verify are actually real.</p><p>But it’s fine. God is all things to all people. God does not need to exist, in fact, he’s purposely chosen to <i>not</i> exist. You see, God is above your silly ideas of what it means to exist.</p><p>You can meet God when you die. You won’t have to explain yourself to him, he already understands.</p>
