---
layout: post
title: Does the Law of Attraction really work? If yes, what have you gained out of it?
date: 2017-12-05
---

<p>Yes it works. At one point in my life, I kept a notebook with things I’d intended to manifest. Each item was written on one line, I’d cross out the line once it manifested. I stopped doing that once I realized that all I was doing was keeping records, it didn’t make it go any faster. I was already an LoA master before I started paying attention to it.</p><p>Direct application of the Law of Attraction is called Intention / Manifestation. (hereto abbreviated as IM) There are three basic steps, first you form an intention, then you release the intention, then you wait for it to manifest. I like to add a fourth step, reflection on the process and coming to insights as to what worked and why. You can regularly reform the intention and release it, but it’s good not to do this too often. For stubborn things that just won’t manifest, (trying to win the lottery there, chief?) daily re-intentions can shift to weekly, then monthly ones.</p><p>Deliberate practice of IM is one of the best spiritual trainings I’ve ever run into. Each step is reflective of that classic spiritual truth of being simple, but nowhere near easy. Your intentions must be clear, powerful and useful for them to have any meaning. You’ll discover other little rules as you do it. Your release must be truly ‘releasing’, you can’t hold on to any fervent wishing, you just have to really let it go. If you need to come up with contingency plans if it’s that important, but don’t obsess over it if you want the greatest effect.</p><p>Materialists will just pooh-pooh it as luck and just all-around teaching good attitudes about the world. But that speaks more to their skepticism than to the efficacy of IM. If you’re spiritually-minded, I highly recommend giving IM a shot. It will teach you a new way of looking at the world if you push through the difficulty.</p>
