---
layout: post
title: How different is Adam Taha&#39;s dating advice from Franklin Veaux?
date: 2017-08-13
---

<p>I think the very first person I muted / blocked on Quora is Adam Taha. It’s not even that I had a whole lot against him, he just had his comments disabled and unless he was going to entertain a dialogue rather than just spew his truth to the world, unfiltered, I just didn’t need to read it.</p><p>His answers brought me back to the days when I used to read and digest PUA material. Even when you take the good and leave the bad, the excessive focus on getting laid leaves a bad taste in your mouth.</p><p>The thing about the PUA mindset is that it’s the same as everything else looked at from the point of male ego. The problems you’re solving aren’t the ones you think you’re solving. You think you want tons of women and tons of sex, when really you’re just looking for the emotional connection that you missed as a kid.</p><p>Men just seem prone to this sort of misrepresentation, and there’s not a whole lot you can do about it other than recognize when it’s happening and either grin and bear it if you have to or distance yourself from it if you don’t. I didn’t have to read Taha’s nonsense, and so I didn’t.</p><p>But since this question grabbed me and demanded an answer from me, I went back to look at his most recent posts. He seems to have gotten way more philosophical about his journey and his desires and his needs and everything about life. If I’d seen these posts when I first came to Quora, I’d never have blocked him.</p><p>But they still don’t hold a candle to <a href="/profile/Franklin-Veaux">Franklin Veaux’</a>s. Franklin does not misrepresent the problems he is trying to solve. He is not a slave to his ego. He knows exactly where the problems lie, exactly the right frame to put his solutions in, and manages to craft an approach to dating that gives <b>everyone</b> more power, not just seek to grab it all for himself.</p><p>Franklin is a true master, Taha is just a mildly talented hack. Franklin managed to create the life for himself that he has being a relatively unattractive man in his, I think fifties? Can’t remember exactly.</p><p>I don’t like to use the term “night and day difference” in a willy-nilly fashion. But I think it’s appropriate here.</p>
