---
layout: post
title: How could I never die?
date: 2017-10-31
---

<p>I am going to provide a “defense in depth” strategy that you can pursue.</p><p>The first thing you are going to want to do is to get enlightened. With a non-dual perspective, concerns like what body you are actually inhabiting fall away and you can contemplate raw existence in greater granularity. So go to some meditation retreats and get some knowledge and earn your knowledge of the fundamental nature of reality.</p><p>Once there, start to meditate on the concept of death. Eventually you can come to realize that death doesn’t just happen at the end of your Earthly life, it happens in minor form every time you go to bed. Or forget something. Or injure yourself. Part of you dies, and the rest of you moves on. Once you have experienced this truth, you can then see actual physical death as just ‘merely’ one kind of that. Your soul lives on while your conscious awareness dies.</p><p>Of course, we’re not done yet. Your conscious awareness is the locus of your identity, you need to move that identity off of your conscious awareness so that when you lose your awareness, whats left of your identity remains intact. Enlightenment does this in part, but unless you continue with identity meditation you will eventually re-form an identity around your awareness.</p><p>When I was in my twenties I slowly became aware that I had massive abilities stashed just outside of my awareness. As I became more aware and familiar with these abilities my identity shifted to become somewhat more than human. If you become enlightened you can start to build on these abilities too. The more of yourself you can situate outside of your body, the less the sudden shock of losing your physical body and mind and place in the world that physical death brings will affect your ability to hold your identity together in the afterlife.</p><p>No, the Christians got it right, if you want a great afterlife, you need to start preparing for it while you’re right here on Earth. Conveniently, the traits they are insistent on developing are really solid for holding your identity together. Mental toughness, patience, compassion. They have Heaven to go to which also really helps, crowdsourced environments keep you from having to do it all the time. In the Unmanifest, your environment is up to you to generate or find, and if you can’t find a home, you’ll fall apart. If you’re an atheist putting forth exactly zero effort into matters of spirit, you won’t survive an hour in the afterlife.</p><p>So if your body dies, you’ll still be prepared with a plan B. So what’s plan A?</p><p>Having your physical body and form and mind survive here indefinitely of course! Your best bet these days is cryopreservation. You can buy life insurance policies that will pay for your cryopreservation, so you have a decent shot at surviving your own death. The thought processes behind cryo are pretty sound, increasing technological advancement will eventually allow us to revive you, it’s only a matter of time. You just need to keep your body on the right side of the point of no return where entropy renders retrieving the information that made up your person impossible.</p><p>So spring for whole-body cryo, not just having your head preserved. It will be far more expensive for future society to replace your whole body, so there’s more chance that it will never happen for you, then I hope you found a place in the afterlife, or that you at least extended your identity beyond your worldly incarnation.</p><p>It’s still a crapshoot, which is where the sure-fire, but most difficult, strategy comes into play. This has to have happened before you were born, that you put yourself in a timeframe where death is a certainty to where it isn’t. Imagine how rare that is! Surely most beings that exist either have to die or death just isn’t something to worry about for them. There is only a small number of people that could ever exist in a species timeline that can consider the possibility of not actually dying.</p><p>Perhaps we exist in an age where life-extension technology becomes viable while we’re still here! Once you do the above, get enlightened, and then the next step of extending your identity beyond the corporeal, you’ll see that there are no accidents in this world, and that your presence in this rarefied time and place is not one either.</p><p>I have done most of these things, and will eventually get around to cryo, but what I’m really curious about is if I managed to make myself immortal well before I was even born. Man wouldn’t that be something.</p><p>But even if you do manage all that, you’ll still eventually develop a “death wish.” Immortality is quite rare in biological organisms, but it isn’t nonexistent. Regardless, there are no sentient mammals that are immortal. It’s probable that there’s just something about the mind that will make you want to end yourself eventually. I believe it’s tied up with why existence in the afterlife is just so hard. So if you do the same steps to prepare yourself for the afterlife, you’ll be better prepared to deal with actual immortality.</p><p>So don’t skimp on your strategy.</p>
