---
layout: post
title: Are past life regressions true?
date: 2017-05-29
---

<p>I define ‘real’ as that which sticks around after the mind stops giving it energy. Think of spiritual contexts as batteries that get charged when you devote time and energy to understanding and working with them. After you stop working with them, the batteries slowly discharge, having knock-on effects to the rest of your life. Eventually, the batteries are drained out, and the context ceases to have any meaningful impact on the rest of your life.</p><p>Everything from angels, to chakras, to trancendental meditation follows this pattern, including past-life regression. These things are lenses through which you can view reality for short periods of time. You can choose to make them enduring parts of your self-identity or you can choose to let them subside and quietly exit your life.</p><p>This, by itself, should tell you whether past-life regression is objectively real or not. It’s as real as you want to make it. It’s real until you decide it’s no longer real.</p><p>In other words, it’s <i>subjectively</i> real. This characterization is <b>completely independent</b> of whether any of these things are <i>objectively</i> real or not, i.e. whether you actually were a French noblewoman in your last life.</p><p>I have done many, many, many spiritual practices over the years. The only bit of it I consider to be really real is the system of logic I’ve devised to describe and work with the spirit realm. This logic creates a realm, not unlike the literary or video game realms, whereby you can extract what’s real out of the completely imaginary.</p><p>Atheists would love it, because it would seem to validate their conviction that all this stuff is just all in the mind.</p><p>Except for the part where I tell them that their desperate hold on the need to not actually believe in anything really limits what they can get out of it. Playing in the space between belief and reality is really powerful. Atheists just want to stick to the reality side of it because belief either scares or disgusts them.</p><p>My advice is to not demand rigor of spirituality. If you’re sitting there and meditating and wondering when God is going to speak to you, stop waiting for a giant booming voice and just listen to your feelings and thoughts, because it’s not like God doesn’t know what those are. You think God can’t influence those? There could be a message there if you want to listen for it.</p><p>The spirit realm is such that anything that you want to have meaning can have meaning if you just believe it can. It doesn’t take long once you adopt this perspective before you reach the point where you need to cut back on all the meaning you’ve attuned your mind to find.</p>
