---
layout: post
title: When positing an entirely theoretical question challenging a religious belief, why do believers of said religion generally answer from a said religious standpoint often disregarding the initial question altogether?
date: 2017-10-19
---

<p>There are a few angles to this.</p><p>First, too much is made of the tendency to not stray outside of one’s belief structure. But this is something everybody does, not just believers in “supernatural” religions.</p><p>If you professed a belief in the free market, and I challenged that belief, there is a very good chance that the answer you come up with could be called “in-belief-system”, say, if I were coming from a communist perspective. You are believing that your <i>perspective</i> is somehow more objective than theirs, that is the source of the disconnect.</p><p>Christians offer up Bible quotes as evidence of Jesus because they believe in the Bible as a source of truth. If you want to question that belief, then start asking about why they believe in the Bible as a source of truth. Don’t just get frustrated because you can’t make their minds go the way you want them to.</p><p>Second, people mainly believe in religion because from their perspective, it <b>really really really really really sucks</b> to believe that there’s nothing out there. Your willingness to believe in materialism is every bit as illogical to them as their willingness to believe in illogical things.</p><p>Many Christians are <b>very</b> aware of the irrationality of their beliefs. You’re not telling them anything new when you question the provenance of the Bible or whatever you’re trying to do. So most times, they just don’t have a good answer to your question. In their minds though, 2000 years of history and culture and tradition trump your silly logic. In their minds, you’re going to grow up someday, have kids and then start to wonder how and why and wherefore, questions that Christianity and other religions already have reasonably-good, verging on great depending on who you ask, answers for.</p><p>So they just write you off as being silly, and go back to their just-fine lives.</p>
