---
layout: post
title: Is there any case where using a front end JavaScript framework or library with Node.js&#47;Express is not preferable?
date: 2017-07-27
---

<p>The big one I can think of is when the size of your payloads is super-critical and highly constrained.</p><p>There are lightweight versions of many popular libraries and frameworks. If you like jQuery, there’s jquery-lite. If you like Underscore, there’s lo-dash. If you like React, there’s <a href="https://mithril.js.org/" data-qt-tooltip="js.org">Mithril.js</a>.</p><p>If you really can’t handle even the light versions of the libraries, then yeah, drop down to vanilla JS and knock yourself out. But it’s hard to find those applications.</p><p>Also, maybe if you’re Google and shaving 3 bytes off of your page loads will save your company millions in hosting fees. Then build everything from scratch with exactly the code you need and nothing more.</p><p>I guess another answer might be if you can’t for whatever reason accept the license terms for the libraries. Can’t imagine a situation in which that’s a valid concern, but I do know that React has onerous terms that make it a no-go for many large companies. If these companies need a component virtual-DOM front end library, they use <a href="https://github.com/developit/preact" data-qt-tooltip="github.com">Preact</a> instead, which has a standard MIT license and not some ridiculous “give me all your patents and no you can’t use ours,” nonsense.</p><p>In order for this to keep you from using any libraries at all, you’d just have to be totally against the idea of licensing? Yeah, not a good reason but it does trip some companies up from using some libraries.</p>
