---
layout: post
title: What is your personal comment policy on Quora that coincides with Quora’s own policies?
date: 2017-04-28
---

<p>I recently deleted a comment where someone had a beef about my tagline, “Atheism is just another branch of Christianity” that I use on religious topics.</p><p>Actually, I had to delete the entire thread, using numerous clicks on the little ‘x’, which did not have the effect I was going for, they’re still all there as ‘Comment deleted’, because I was silly enough to actually respond hoping they were actually interested in a discussion. I won’t make that mistake again.</p><p>I am happy to have discussions concerning spirituality and religion with people <i>who are interested in having discussions.</i> If you just want a platform on which to call it all BS, then I’m not interested in giving you that platform. Build your own.</p><p>In this case, the person demanded justification for my assertion. Said justification is right there in my profile, open for anyone to read. I pointed him there, and he didn’t want to do the two clicks and read the short essay that I provided specifically for someone like him.</p><p>No, he was demanding special treatment. He wanted me to articulate, specifically to him, what he could have just gotten through my profile. You have to earn special treatment. I should have seen from his caustic attitude that he wasn’t interested in earning anything. So I simply deleted the whole thread.</p><p>You can’t have a real discussion without respect, and my comment section will always be a place of respect.</p>
