---
layout: post
title: Do professional programmers not get frustrated by constantly having to try and come up with solutions to problems that can only be solved by strictly logical means? Does their ability to persevere stem from an innate drive to solve puzzles?
date: 2017-11-15
---

<p>If you’re not a programmer, you’d be really surprised by just how much creativity there is in coding. Just because it’s not a visual art doesn’t mean there’s not a lot of art in it.</p><p>Finding the art in my tasks is often the only way I stay sane. I know that I don’t have to get this done immediately, so I take a step back and start considering the program from a higher level. A good place to start is design. How does this feature fit into the overall design of the application? How is it interacting with other features? Are there neat ways I can make the behavior even more intention revealing?</p><p>You see, your bosses don’t and can’t understand the site <i>mechanistically</i>. If you want engineers to build a bridge, all you’re likely thinking of is where it’s supposed to begin, end, how high up it’s supposed to go, and if you’re really froggy, the placement of the supports and their constitution and the like.</p><p>The engineers building the bridge, though, deal with <i>everything else</i>. The height of the railings, their materials, which particular design they’re going to use and the tradeoffs they present. How to run the cabling for the lighting. What sort of median is going to be separating traffic. All the little things.</p><p>Any project large enough to involve engineers, and even lots of projects that don’t, is going to have a huge space in which things could be thought of, specified, and implemented, but is up to the engineers to actually do it, as the clients are only interested in the finished product and what they want out of it. This is the space in which you can get creative.</p><p>With software, this space can be really, really big. Features asked for can often be done dozens of different ways. Even the visuals are often left to the team and are only changed if the client doesn’t like it. Architectural details like what stack the back-end runs on, clients don’t care much at all about and only have token or wrong appreciation of the trade offs of one solution or another.</p><p>Coding is crazy fun once you start to appreciate all these little details.</p>
