---
layout: post
title: Do enlightened people still feel horny and hook up with people?
date: 2017-10-20
---

<p>I personally do. But I spent a long, long time not doing it.</p><p>What enlightenment frees you from is the <i>need</i> to find sexual fulfillment. Evolution has built into the male mind a <i>drive</i> to procreate. You can see this drive most clearly in teenagers, but it still exists in adults as a drive for the meaning they make in their lives.</p><p>Enlightenment moves the locus of identification away from the body, away from the mind, and away from pure awareness, to a diffuse, amorphous, ‘higher’ kind of being. For most, this is an academic consideration, but for me it’s very real. By not identifying with my body, sex has the same kind of appeal that eating a good meal does. Nice, but nothing to order your life around.</p><p>For a long time, sex wasn’t even that nice for me. It’s like a lot of things that you pretend are Totally Fucking Awesome when you’re a teenager but aren’t. Partying, drinking, doing stupid things just out of being young. Without body or mind identification and “just existing,” even sex was seen by me as just not really worth it.</p><p>Fast forward 10 years and I’m established in a career, making decent money, wondering what to do next. I’d been more or less celibate for a decade, the few experiences I had just weren’t all that interesting, but I’ve run out of low-hanging fruit at this point.</p><p>So I start looking to date. Dating while enlightened is really frustrating. Or it would be, if I actually felt frustration. It seems like every interaction struggles to just be seen the same way on both sides. Getting to a space of mutual trust is difficult when mindsets are so different.</p><p>It took me a few years to get my dating priorities set. Now that I have my priorities straight, I’m refining my actual interactions. I think maybe in a year or so I’ll have the basics of sex down, then I can start to explore stuff like BDSM. Just to get to this point, I had to spend years figuring out courtship and just interacting with people on that level.</p><p>If you want an enlightened perspective on sex and dating, look no farther than <a href="/profile/Franklin-Veaux">Franklin Veaux</a>. I fully believe that Franklin is enlightened himself, even though he himself doesn’t see through that lens.</p>
