---
layout: post
title: Does my consciousness control my subconscious mind or does my subconscious mind control my consciousness?
date: 2017-11-10
---

<p>Ooh, really good question.</p><p>Consciousness is best visualized as a flashlight shining all over your brain, one area after another. Your brain has many billions of neurons which are all doing <i>something</i> at all times.</p><p>You see, a neuron is still contributing to activity in the brain even when it’s not firing. It’s watching other neurons, looking for a reason to start firing. Consciousness can shine its light pretty much anywhere in the brain and if it goes over a quiet part, you experience an “all well” sort of peacefulness.</p><p>Your subconscious is just the part of your brain that is operating outside the ken of the conscious.</p><p>This is where we have to introduce the concept of the <i>mind</i>. The mind is an <i>abstraction</i> over the brain, just like consciousness. But while consciousness feels like a movie showing frames of experience, the mind is a collection of patterns that order and organize the functioning of consciousness. The patterns are encoded in your neurons and start forming when you’re very little.</p><p>This puts us in a weird pickle. What is the subconscious really? Does it have any agency of its own? I think in normal brains, no. There are mental conditions that create additional agencies / personalities in the mind, but that’s not the normal state.</p><p>I personally have experienced an additional agency in my head. This happened as a result of spiritual activity and inquiry. If you reach a certain point, a spirit guide will manifest. I believe these spirit guides are simply manifestations of imagination, the same way you play out events in your head, your spirit guide is a reflection of your creativity and desire for novel experience.</p><p>As such, spirit guides aren’t really part of your subconscious, they’re part of your conscious. They only exist when you want them to. If you stop giving them energy, they go away.</p><p>If by subconscious you mean the patterns your mind operates in, then sure, your subconscious controls your conscious by forming the substrate on which your conscious mind exists in. The color red is a specific pattern of neuron firings, this pattern forms a component of your mind, which patterns your conscious experience. Everything you experience is just different patterns of neuronal activity.</p><p>Is “patterning” the same thing as “controlling”? In my opinion, no. Your experience of living is patterned by the house you live in, does that mean your house controls you? Of course not, that’s silly.</p><p>No, your conscious mind is the locus of all control of your being. Your subconscious, even the imaginary, illusory elements that you imagine are taking over your will, are in actuality <b>following</b> your will, not hijacking it. You just are not conscious of these aspects of will, because they lie deep in your psyche. But because they are patterns, not actual agents, they don’t know how to outwit you, you just allow them to, partly because you don’t know how to change them.</p><p>Spirituality can help you come to an understanding of your whole self. I highly recommend a mystical practice to assist in this goal. I synthesized this understanding from both my own personal experiences, and whatever I read about current neuroscience and psychology.</p>
