---
layout: post
title: What&#39;s it like to experience life being a dream?
date: 2017-11-19
---

<p>As I settled into my late twenties and concluded the pathway of intensive study and clarification, I started to experience a deepening “transitoriness.” I’ve always gripped life loosely, ready to let go if it is demanded of me, but up until this point the possession I exerted over my existence and reality was fairly close to the line of identification. Think a samurai using his katana as an extension of his body. He does not identify as the katana, but space between his mind and his weapon is so small that you can consider them welded.</p><p>This is how I lived most of my life. Running “close to the metal,” in software parlance. I wanted to discover insights where the ‘rubber meets the road,’ where spirituality intersects with the real world. I got very, very, very close to my lessons and experienced them in all their ugly yet sublime glory.</p><p>But eventually it became time to move on from that chapter, and since I did, I’ve become more aware, cognizant, and exploratory of that space in between ultimate reality and the immediate aspects of being, i.e. body / mind / awareness, as opposed to the space between immediate aspects of being, and the rest of the world. Instead of doing things directly, I watch them spontaneously arise out of the interconnectedness of my existence, something I’d always been aware of, but hasn’t been focused on.</p><p>This increased focus on the operation of interconnected reality as opposed to directed reality has lent a much stronger ‘dreamlike’ tone to experience. Experiences lose their sense of connection and become like episodes of a tv series. The ‘grippiness’ has moved from wanting to drive outcomes to just experiencing flow.</p><p>I’m trying at the moment to “reboot” my productivity, while not losing the power of my new perceptive mode. It’s almost like being newly-enlightened, but on a much lesser scale. I want to orchestrate on a grander scale. Mind simply needs to get accustomed to the new patterns.</p>
