---
layout: post
title: What kind of questions do you downvote? Can you give examples?
date: 2017-05-28
---

<p>I only downvote questions when the subject matter seems interesting to everyone else I follow but me. For example, I recently downvoted this question:</p><p><a href="/What-should-I-do-if-I-have-a-crush-on-you-Should-I-tell-you-through-Quora">What should I do if I have a crush on you? Should I tell you through Quora?</a></p><p>Everybody in my feed was jumping all over themselves to tell them that Quora isn’t a dating site, don’t bother me with it, and I wasn’t interested enough to find a different approach to the question.</p><p>I’d prefer to mute the question, but Quora took that away from us so I’m just left with downvoting.</p><p>There are plenty of questions that come up in my feed that I wouldn’t like seeing, but downvoting one isn’t going to stop them all, so I don’t bother. Example here would be the countless numbers of teenagers just now starting to encounter the other sex and are <b>so so confused</b> by everything they do. I’m not quite at the point yet of unfollowing Interpersonal Interaction because there’s still good stuff there.</p><p>I think I have already unfollowed Hypothetical Scenarios because they just seem to be a silly game of loopholes these days. I long for the days when people would ask really interesting things like that one where if a Roman legion got dropped into Times Square what would happen. That was fun to answer. But the signal to noise ratio is just too low now.</p><p>ConsDeva was fun for awhile but that needs to be turned into a legit blog because the answers are just too short to be interesting anymore. You guys need to get your priorities in order, entertaining me is way more important than your “real” job or whatever it is you call that! :-p</p>
