---
layout: post
title: How is it possible to not believe in both God and the belief that there is no God?
date: 2017-12-14
---

<p>By changing up what your understanding of God is.</p><p>A monotheistic, “pure”, non-physical, universal, all-benevolent God is actually a fairly recent invention. For much of human existence, God was none of these things. Religions concerned themselves with gods that only served the members of the tribes that believed in them, and they were imbued in physical objects that could be destroyed. When the artifact was destroyed, so was the God.</p><p>If you look at this sort of thing and conclude that pre-modern religion was a social fiction, bought and sold by the elites to the peasants, you’d be largely right. They didn’t have academies back then to support philosophers thinking really abstract thoughts about such things. People understand the immediacy of the physical and their neighbors and promoting the social order and justice was considered far more important than “mere” logic, which is what we demand of our spiritual paradigms now.</p><p>Put simply, that religions worked was more important than that they made sense from a modern perspective. It wasn’t until the Romans that efforts were made to adapt religion to a truly universal human understanding. And that required the religion of the day, Christianity, to be truly political and international in scope, something truly unprecedented in the world up until then.</p><p>The traits we traditionally consider when we think of God were manufactured for us at some point in the past by someone with a real interest in selling it to us.</p><p>So it’s not hard at all to disbelieve in God as He is taught to us.</p><p>But that doesn’t necessarily mean that no God could exist. Christians are extremely specific about their beliefs but it’s perfectly reasonable to think they’re wrong, and you don’t have to become an atheist in order to properly reconcile that belief. Religions serve people, not God. God might not really care how he’s portrayed to anyone.</p><p>So it’s perfectly reasonable to strike a path between “I don’t believe in God” and “materialism and atheist are still silly.”</p>
