---
layout: post
title: How are you supposed to react when your boyfriend forces you to have sex? It does not get violent, but it is not consensual.
date: 2017-05-08
---

<p>Tough situation, I’m sorry you have to go through it. If sex with your boyfriend makes you too uncomfortable then there’s really no good option other than to end the relationship. Roll the dice on another guy, hopefully he’ll be more aware of your needs.</p><p>I mean, you could try to fix the situation but if he’s not attentive now, then it’s unlikely that he ever will be able to. But it doesn’t sound like you actually want to end the relationship so I’ll talk a little bit about how you might approach a resolution.</p><p>I’ve written a guide to resolving conflict in relationships, you can read it here: <a href="https://vinceguidry.quora.com/A-Guide-to-Getting-What-You-Want-Out-of-Your-Partner">A Guide to Getting What You Want Out of Your Partner by Vincent Guidry on Relationship Thoughts</a></p><p>Not respecting your sexual boundaries is your point of contention here, and it’s serious enough to break up with him over, so you’re totally justified in going nuclear and pressing the big red button to end the relationship.</p><p>Once you do this, you’ve seized the high ground and he has two options. Allow the relationship to end, or fight to keep the relationship. He has two approaches to fighting. He can either work with you or work against you.</p><p>If he works against you then he’s just driving more nails into the coffin of your relationship. So if he doesn’t take you seriously, belittles or insults you, really anything other than admit that there’s a serious problem, dump him like a bad habit because he’s really bad for you and is only going to get worse over time.</p><p>On the other hand if he admits that the problem exists and is serious then you can work towards a resolution. Have your ideal resolution in mind, perhaps you want him to immediately stop whatever he’s doing the second you say ‘no’, always a good policy, then just state that. If he agrees, then you’ve managed to work on your relationship. I’d avoid getting sexual again for at least a week to let the lesson sink in.</p>
