---
layout: post
title: How can a small man convert his poor behavior, pessimistic thinking, aimless life, and limited thinking into a large life as a powerful, rich person?
date: 2017-07-06
---

<p>You need to change the scale of your thinking.</p><p><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_Norton" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">Emperor Norton</a> was a homeless guy with severe mental issues that still managed to capture the imagination of San Francisco. He achieved fame, notoriety, and had more influence on the city and it’s history than many of it’s movers and shakers.</p><p>He managed to achieve this by taking his every thought, every action, and giving it a regal bearing. People fell in love with the idea that such a simple man could so thoroughly assume a royal status and showered him with the kind of love that real kings wish they could command.</p><p>Norton managed to turn his mental issues to his advantage. You similarly have disadvantages you can turn to advantages. And the basic script of entertaining people by giving them something they can relate to and doing it on a grander scale still works as well as it did in the late 1800s.</p><p>How do you do it? Well, let me put it this way. Your mind is the only thing in your life that you have any <b>real</b> control over. The main thing that holds us back is scripts that play on autopilot in your head. They tell you how bad you are, how stupid, how unworthy you are of greatness.</p><p>You need to wage war against these scripts. Try to catch yourself in the act of telling yourself something that you don’t want to be true. And then simply replace that thought with something better. Keep doing it until your mind doesn’t run on autopilot anymore.</p><p>You can do like Emperor Norton did and replace them with grandiose visions that you can share. Or you can set your sights lower. You can use your mind to actually chase the things that you want. Whatever your circumstances, you can use your mind to put together a plan to escape them. You don’t have to listen to the scripts.</p>
