---
layout: post
title: Isn&#39;t it ironic how people who believe themselves to be &#39;enlightened&#39; to be in more need of spiritual guidance than anyone?
date: 2017-10-15
---

<p>If you want to be spiritual, you have two basic choices on how to go about it. You can come up with all the ideas yourself. Or you can get ideas from other people and riff on them.</p><p>If you do it all yourself you end up like Christian Slater’s character in <i>True Romance</i>. Though maybe not quite as good-looking. Everything just kind of merges together and you have to get all your meaning in life from the things that happen to you, you can’t find any in the process of discovering and analyizing your spirituality. You might pick up a spirit guide along the way, and are basically limited to modern shamanism.</p><p>Not a bad life but I much prefer the sharing of ideas and experience. One of these ideas is enlightenment. Think about this for a second. In order to understand yourself as an enlightened person, you have to know what enlightenment is. Eckhart Tolle sitting on a park bench for days isn’t special until he’s <i>learned</i> that it was special from reading other people who share their experiences and ideas.</p><p>Spirituality is a vast realm. It encompasses everything humans have ever been able to theorize about how everything works. When you’re enlightened you can be more aware of this than others. Requesting and accepting spiritual guidance is not an admission of defeat, it’s an acknowledgement of something everybody should know but often forgets. Time and attention is limited. By sharing experiences and ideas, you can multiply the fruits of that time and attention.</p><p>I often suggest in my answers that people should go do something I did so that they can come to the conclusion I did. Like reading a particular book, or muscle testing. But it’s a silly thing to expect other people to do, and I don’t really expect them to go and do it. For one, they’re not going to have prepared themselves the same way. So they probably won’t come to the same conclusions. For another, they have their path to walk and I have mine. If I lead them along a different path, I’m not really serving them.</p><p>Finally, being able to <b>accept</b> spiritual guidance at all is a mark of low identification. People’s minds are resistant to new ideas that affect the core of how things work. My deeply Catholic mother could never accept any kind of spiritual guidance, she has too strong of a hold on her own truth. You need to hold your truth very lightly for spiritual guidance to even mean anything to you.</p>
