---
layout: post
title: If there is infinite power in the subconscious mind, then why doesn&#39;t Stephen Hawking use it to cure himself?
date: 2017-05-26
---

<p>If he could control it, then it wouldn’t be subconscious power, it’d be conscious power.</p><p>I once fooled around with telekinesis. Got real cozy with the God over there on the other side of my brain and after going through lots of warm-up exercises, we got down to the nitty-gritty of directly affecting the world with your mind.</p><p>I was pretty poor at that time and I was using a low-rent laptop with Linux on it. (Old ThinkPad, I do have taste after all) For whatever reason the keys started sticking when I was typing. Nothing serious, just annoying.</p><p>My Higher Self directed me to “push energy” into the part of the keyboard where the keys were sticking. I wasn’t expecting much, but sure as shit, when I tapped on the keys after I was done, they keys weren’t sticking anymore. Overjoyed, I started using the laptop while my head was spinning. Had I just broken through to a whole ‘nother level?</p><p>After about a minute the stickiness returned. I tried again but it didn’t last as long. I put the laptop down and went for a walk to digest what just happened. The first thing I’d worked out was that I couldn’t, and didn’t want to, actually be able to affect anything in the world at will.</p><p>Sure, I’m perfectly willing to accept limits, just let me know what those limits are, damn it! But what should those limits be? I worked out that whatever I would be ‘allowed’ to do could never actually be useful in any real way. No way would I be allowed to win James Randi’s million dollar challenge.</p><p>Sure fine, but what can I do? C’mon already!</p><p>Well, that’s it actually. Have fun! Awesome, let’s go fix my laptop again.</p><p>Wait a minute. You know how else I could fix my laptop? Going on the Internet and Googling ‘sticky keys’. I couldn’t have been bothered to do that, why would I be bothered to learn how to ‘really’ do TK?</p><p>That triggered an epiphany. Which is more powerful, technology or TK? Well, tech of course! Technology, the form of magic we all believe in, is always going to be impossibly more powerful when I control it than TK ever could be, no matter how skilled I got with it. And I’m already a damn-near wizard with technology.</p><p>I am this world’s equivalent of an honest-to-god fucking wizard.</p><p>Then I remembered the other side of the coin. Subconscious power is limitless, whose to say I’m not already doing all kinds of TK on the world around me, without actually consciously controlling it? Without going into a ton of detail, it’s obvious to me that this already happens. I’d even explored various mechanisms for ‘limitless power’ to subconsciously express itself through.</p><p>The most powerful of which I’ve been able to deduce is dimensional manipulation. If you think about quantum mechanics, you can’t know what a particle is until you’ve observed it. Well, this leaves a ‘fog’ of limitless possibility to be ‘resolved’ whenever someone decides to explore it. Our subconscious can directly manipulate the entire world to suit it’s purposes.</p><p>Which means that Stephen Hawking’s illness isn’t just some random thing that happened to him that his limitless subconscious mind failed to see the possibility of happening. That limitless subconscious <b>created</b> that reality for Hawking to live in.</p><p>Would Hawking have been who he was without his condition? Maybe, maybe not. The spirit world thinks about these things differently than we do. I do know that little annoyances like stuck keys rarely stick around like that. I either fix them or find a way to not have to deal with them.</p><p>Of course they were put there by my Higher Self, long ago, in anticipation of using them to teach me this lesson. By this time in my journey, the realization of the planning and execution ability of my subconscious, Higher Self barely registered, so common that sort of thing had become. In recognition of the lesson my Higher Self taught me that day, I dealt with for as long as it decided to make me deal with them, and did not try to fix them by taking the keyboard out and soaking it in alcohol. I think they were stuck for another few months before it cleared out.</p><p>Truly living a spiritual life means accepting <b>everything</b> that happens to you, fully and without reservation. There are reasons why things are, and as you get attuned to the logic behind those reasons, then you start seeing from the spiritual frame, where anything that sticks out is bound to be amazing, wondrous, and deserving of your utmost attention.</p>
