---
layout: post
title: Why does my phone battery get burning hot when I use Quora and rapidly drain? How much CPU can this app possibly need?
date: 2017-05-02
---

<p>Being a web developer myself, trust me I feel your pain. The trend these days has been to incredible levels of software bloat. Teams get laser-focused on delivering feature after feature, and when there’s no new features planned, they fix bugs and the once-in-a-blue-moon security vulnerability.</p><p>Far down the list, after major bugs are fixed, after the design team can’t dream up any new features, some dev <b>might</b> take some spare time to look at performance issues.</p><p>You can’t blame just Quora on this. Keeping everything working across a ton of browsers, mobile architectures, and through everything changing over time, takes more work than your average software company has on tap.</p><p>And there’s also the question of what how the developers of software might think the users are using it. Personally, I use Quora primarily on my desktop, that’s the most natural place to me to use it. But most other people I run into on Quora use their phones as the primary interface.</p><p>I don’t think Quora has really wrapped their heads around that. They might think that most people use their Quora phone apps like I do, to browse answers and questions to answer later when I’m on my desktop. The time I spend on it is limited so I never really feel that pain.</p><p>There was a time when pulling up one of the answer writing interfaces caused my desktop CPU to peg at 100% and my fan to go crazy, I had to be careful to only answer questions on the other interface. So glad they fixed that one.</p>
