---
layout: post
title: Why is the number 3 so significant in pagan religions? It also presents importance in other religions, Christianity and Hindu for instance. Is this an inheritance in some cases of the pagan religions?
date: 2017-10-01
---

<p>It’s a small number that’s not one or two. I’m not kidding. There’s only so many small numbers out there, and the smaller the number, the more significance it carries. One and two, are too common and mundane though. Three is just big enough to command fascination, but not so big that it gets drowned out in all the other numbers.</p><p>Plus it exists in a nice little divot. Four is too close in spirit to two, it’s a very analytical number. If you enumerate four things, you can split them up into two groups of two. Four lends itself well to analysis, Spirit doesn’t want to be analyzed, so this is why spiritual paradigms tend to stick to odd numbers under ten.</p><p>Nine has the problem of being divisible by three, this makes it a bit too complicated for the purposes of spirituality. Which leaves seven and five. Seven is the number of luck. It avoids the problems of the other numbers but is large enough to convey a sense of fate. If you can count seven related things that seemingly came out of nowhere that’s pretty impressive. You do see nine and seven pointed stars, I wore a pewter seven-pointed star for awhile when I was getting my feet wet spiritually.</p><p>I’ve wondered in the past why five isn’t given more play. But then I realize its potential is overshadowed by the more useful three and nine. Three for when you want to enumerate an indivisible number of concepts, and nine for when you want to be more analytical. Five is no-man’s land.</p>
