---
layout: post
title: Nietzsche stated that the driving force within all humans is the will to power. If so, how does this statement contrast with the Buddhist&#39;s teachings? Can there be a reconciliation between the two philosophies in the Western world?
date: 2018-10-30
---

<p>It’s worth noting that Nietzsche was a man who was profoundly unsatisfied throughout his entire life, and this informed his philosophies in a serious way.</p><p>The idea that we are all driven by a will to power has a sort of transcendent truth, but the concept of power starts to lose meaning after you appropriate enough of it. You’re still looking for power, but you can’t keep finding it the same way you did before.</p><p>A good example of this principle is in the classic case study in power brokering, Robert Moses. He schemed and strategized to get to a position of power in NYC bureaucracy, and once there, had to eventually make the determination that further moves in <i>position</i> weren’t really germane to his wishes. As an unelected city official, generally most people’s next move would be to try to gain elected public office.</p><p>He didn’t do this, he decided instead to just exert power from where he was. And found some frankly terrifying ways to do it, the effects of which are still felt today in the city. He saw the machinery of the city in a clearer way than most, and was able to take a crowbar to city government so as to pry it apart at the seams in order to achieve his whims. And when it was found that enough other people wanted what he wanted, they helped him.</p><p>Another example is in order, one that bridges the gap from Western intellectualism to Eastern spirituality. Many people remember Gandhi as a pacifist symbol, but he was just as power mongering as Robert Moses, for perhaps more compelling political reasons. Where Moses took a lever to city government, Gandhi took one to the very fabric of Indian society, having a key role in pushing the British out of the country.</p><p>Gandhi’s pacifism was extremely finely calibrated to the tenor of Indian society, to allow millions of disenfranchised Indians a public outlet for their fears and dissatisfaction. It was extremely adversarial, without being violent. He was a channel for discontent in a similar way that Robert Moses was for the people that helped him.</p><p>If you now examine all the different ways in which people with issues and wants and desires get them resolved, it can be easy to conclude that this is an absolute principle of human nature. And it is, perhaps. I’m the most mystical guy I know, and I’m very much in tune with the forces of discontent and the skill set you need to get those issues addressed.</p><p>And I suppose I could, if I so wanted, turn into Robert Moses and dedicate my career towards the pursuit of power for its own sake.</p><p>But, well, I just can’t be bothered. It doesn’t look all that interesting to me. The reason why is because of an aspect of Buddhist philosophy, identification.</p><p>When you identify with something, you adopt an intellectual framing that allows you to better achieve your goals, within that frame. But the downside is that you pay a fairly hefty price, cutting off your ability to operate in other frames, particularly those that compete with your chosen frame. The old multiclass system in D&amp;D made it so that you could be a fighter-wizard if you wanted to, but you’d have to pay a hefty experience penalty and you’ll never be as good a fighter as a dedicated fighter, nor as good a wizard as a non-multiclassed one.</p><p>Finding and eliminating identity is the whole point of Buddhist spirituality. The idea is that you flow like water, adopting identity when needed to accomplish a purpose and then discarding it once the need passes. If life called on me to be Robert Moses, then I’d be Robert Moses for as long as life calls on me to do so. The act of doing all that unsavory politicking has a deleterious effect on the psyche, so dealing what that effect would then become the rule of the day.</p><p>This shift, back and forth, from identification to dealing with the consequences of identity, this is an aspect of <i>maya</i>, the quality of the world and self that tries to force you to take a stand, to believe in it. The practice of Buddhism is in learning more transcendent, inner methods for removing the whole source, the need to <b>be</b> something, to change the world. Such desires only come from the self.</p><p>We can say that probably Gandhi was more enlightened than Robert Moses, first because he had a much greater effect on the world than Moses did, and also by looking at the events of his life and determining that he held true in the face of greater personal hardship. Perhaps Moses would have stepped up to the extent that Gandhi did.</p><p>But it’s unlikely to expect that to be the case, and you can even use Christian ideas and moral philosophy to more affirmatively state that. What’s good is that which helps the most people, this is the idea that all those ugly stories in the Old Testament beat into you. Moses helped some people but hurt many too, while Gandhi’s change in the political order helped far more people, and hurt relatively far fewer.</p><p>If you want to believe that Christian and Buddhist truths are compatible, the only way to read it is that Gandhi was more enlightened. Nietzsche was brilliant but flawed, and Buddhism is ultimately more true.</p>
