---
layout: post
title: Do atheists believe anything in the Holy Bible?
date: 2018-06-02
---

<p>I’m a theist, I believe in God, I consider myself at least 60% Christian, but I don’t think anything in the Bible happened the way it was described.</p><p>In the first place, things get embellished in good stories. If you fail to embellish, then you’re not telling a properly good story. Just the way that works. Religions are intended to aid your personal mysticism, and scripture is way more useful in that regard than they are as a historical record, even if they claim to be. You’re supposed to read between the lines.</p><p>The people that wrote scripture didn’t really believe in history, they didn’t know what history was. History took another thousand years to properly invent, expecting the Bible to be 100% historical to be useful is like expecting your 2 year old’s coloring book to look like Van Gogh before you appreciate his creativity.</p><p>So, the Christians told the story of a Jesus that performed miracles. I believe that I can disbelieve in the miracles while still believing in the divinity of Jesus. I can also believe in the miracles. There’s no evidence either way, so I personally default to disbelieving in the supernatural acts while still believing in the divinity.</p><p>I personally don’t need God to burn a bush or part the Red Sea for me. My own personal mysticism is plenty enough for me. When I was a kid, I thought like an atheist and declared my lack of belief to my parents, who were surprisingly tolerant. Over the following 15 years I slowly recanted that position. I was just too curious and my experiences meditating and muscle testing eventually made holding on to disbelief impossible.</p><p>I didn’t start reading scripture until this year. I gotta say, the historicity of the source materials is utterly and completely immaterial to the question of belief and getting stuff out of it.</p>
