---
layout: post
title: Is there a Universal Way to God, Universal Mysticism, or Universal Spirituality and is Mysticism harmful in some way?
date: 2018-03-17
---

<p>I work with a concept that I call the Absolute, which is intented to hold all things. If it can be thought about, it belongs in the Absolute. I arrived at this idea after working with many, many different types of spiritual ideas. From Western-style occultism, to Eastern-style meditation, anything that caught my eye, I read and incorporated into my worldview.</p><p>It’s a lot of friggen work. You know what I found out after it all? There’s one concept it all boils down to, that it all resolves to.</p><p>Self.</p><p>What are you? Who are you? What do you identify as? What do you want? What does what you want say about who you are?</p><p>Mysticism is exploration of Self.</p><p>Now let’s consider God. What does ‘God’ mean? If you tried to answer that question, your words would come from you. In fact, all words spoken about God, all thoughts directed at and around God, came from some person. So in a very very important way, God flows from Self.</p><p>Neither concept is irreducible. If they were irreducible then you would not be able to explore them. But you can divide God into lots of different concepts, lots of different people’s conception of God. Lots of different aspects. You can consider historical perspectives on God.</p><p>But you can reduce spirituality down to its fundamental essence. It’s the relationship between Self and God. You’re looking for a ‘universal’ way to God, and the only way to do that is to strip everything else out of the equation. Just you, and God.</p><p>There is no deeper mysticism than the commingling of yourself and God. There is no better spirituality.</p><p>The Christians already figured this out and put a name to it. Prayer.</p>
