---
layout: post
title: Would you as a Christian remove the idea of Hell from your religion if Jesus never spoke of it?
date: 2018-06-16
---

<p>I’m what I like to describe as a ‘loose’ Christian. I believe in God, and I accept the Jesus myth as having primacy over other myths, and identify with Abrahamic theology over other theologies. That said, I’ve spent, and still spend, <b>far</b> more time outside the domain of Christian theology than I have inside it. I’m still trying to reconcile these positions. In the meantime, calling myself a “mystic scholar” is the best string of words I can find to describe what I do with my free time.</p><p>So maybe my opinion isn’t the one you really want.</p><p>But you may be surprised to know that Christians have been grappling with the weirdness of Hell for a <b>long</b> time. It really does need to be there, in that it serves a hugely important role in Christian mythology. I mean, I can dive into that reason, sure, I can go read Wikipedia for you and summarize. But that’s not the real question being asked here.</p><p>What you really want to know about is the irrationality of belief. What actually happens in Hell and who goes there, like so many other questions about Christian theology, probably the most notable of which is what happens to babies after they die, Christians simply <i>don’t have an answer</i> <i>to the question</i>.</p><p>If you think this means that Christians should simply recognize this for the cognitive dissonance that it is and resolve it by eliminating the source of the dissonance, belief in magical things, then really, you don’t know the first thing about Christianity. Christians aren’t going to give up their beliefs. Not in Hell, and certainly not in Heaven, despite not knowing where dead babies go.</p><p>Giving up their beliefs is <b>not something that Christians do</b>. It’s really that simple. I’m a mystic, and while I can play in both realms, the rational and the mystical, I will <b>never</b> give up my own personal beliefs in the truth of irrational mysterious things. The reality of those things in my mind is <i>absolute</i>. My goal is to show you how the irrational and the rational work best <i>together</i>, not split with a big black line that thou mustest never ever crosseth.</p><p>You may hold your truths lightly, bully for you. But belief in mystical realities <b>just doesn’t work</b> unless it’s held as strongly as the mind has the muscles to hold it. It just doesn’t generate meaning and value in people’s lives otherwise.</p><p>Whether Hell actually exists or not, it generates value in people’s lives <i>just by being there</i>, and that’s all the reason you need to keep believing it exists.</p>
