---
layout: post
title: Is the purpose of life to reach enlightenment?
date: 2018-03-05
---

<p>So, existence itself doesn’t have a purpose. Your chair does not care whether people are sitting in it or not. But beings require purpose in order to keep existing. If you remove all purpose from life, then there will be no motivation to move, and without movement, there’s only stasis. Things that stay in stasis long enough stop interacting with other things, and things that don’t interact with other things don’t exist relative to those things.</p><p>In other words, while life itself doesn’t have a purpose, you need one in order to not get bored. This answers your question, but isn’t a really satisfactory answer, so I’ll dive a little deeper.</p><p>The learning cycle goes as such. You want something, you try to get it, you fail, you learn how to do it better, you try again, you succeed, you find something ‘higher’ to want. It’s as applicable to a bacteria wanting more sugar to eat as it is to a head of state looking to reduce his nation’s trade deficit.</p><p>When you want something, and fail to get it, whether you will succeed in getting it the next time revolves around whether you’ve learned enough from your previous attempts. Cats are really good at jumping across things because a cat’s life involves doing a lot of that. Things you do a lot of, you get better at. I will call this concept the Universal Learning Cycle, as it becomes important later and I want to be able to refer back to it.</p><p>Consciousness persists across lifetimes and takes many, many, many forms, picking up many different kinds of skills before it finally arrives in a human body. I believe that consciousness growth is a form of evolution. Evolution is the undirected, purposeless creation of discernible features. The ones that increase fitness and agency tend to stick around in what’s called natural selection.</p><p>So while the human body you inhabit is in a process of evolution, so too is the consciousness present in your mind. Undirected, purposeless creation of discernible features describes precisely the thought process and the creation of mental patterns.</p><p>The mind is actually an environment in which evolution can proceed at a pace that far outstrips physical evolution. Strong, isolated events create strong adaptations in the mind, and they lodge in the firmament of mind, never to shake free.</p><p>So then, what is Buddhism and the process of mysticism that eventually leads to enlightenment? It’s the ordered watching of the evolution of mind, called meditation. But if you just sat there and meditated every single day, you would never reach Buddhist enlightenment. Because meditation, like everything else agents do, does not produce results without purpose. For this reason, Buddhist mystics provide maps, which they call <i>dharma</i>.</p><p>Dharma maps are all very similar in structure, and in fact this structure is broadly applicable just about everywhere you find agents, because it’s precisely the same cycle as the aforementioned Universal Learning Cycle, just blown up so that the agents can examine and learn and improve, not just on the thing they want to achieve, but also <i>the process of learning itself</i>. So when you look at epic stories, they follow a similar arc to Buddhist dharma. I won’t regurgitate it here, look up the monomyth for more information.</p><p>The concept of enlightenment encapsulates the <i>cessation</i> of existence. The process to get there is fairly straightforward. You progressively give up all the aspects of self that provide for individual identity. But since killing yourself doesn’t make for good religious pedagogy, Buddhism traditionally holds that only an extremely small number of people ever become enlightened while holding a material body.</p><p>But of course plenty of Buddhists want a conception of enlightenment that is actually attainable in this lifetime. So they dusted off the old concept of <i>Advaita</i> and re-imagined it as the ultimate in human consciousness achievement. Advaita had always been a philosophical concept, a way to organize thinking about metaphysics, in the West as monism just as in the East.</p><p>But as societies modernized and people started finding some disposable income, they wanted ideas on how to transform their lives with mysticism, Neo-Advaita was born. It cobbles together information from whatever source sounds the best, towards the purpose of giving you something tangible to achieve.</p><p>So we have old enlightenment, and we have new enlightenment. Old enlightenment is perhaps better rooted in fundamentals. New enlightenment rests on a pastiche of spiritual hackery. Old enlightenment dates back to Iron Age India. New enlightenment dates back to the thirties, when the teachings of Ramana Maharshi were brought to the West. Old enlightenment is not very attainable on reasonable time scales. But new enlightenment is designed to be.</p><p>I hope by now you have enough historical color to definitively answer the question. Speaking as someone who has done a lot of mysticism in my life, I’ll say that when you get deep enough into these concepts and experience them for yourself, the mystery slowly clarifies, revealing smaller mysteries to investigate. The big ideas that drive beginners, like non-duality and enlightenment, are revealed in all their illusory splendor.</p>
