---
layout: post
title: Why couldn&#39;t God have just forgiven us without the human sacrifice of Jesus?
date: 2018-07-31
---

<p>Why do you create things? What do you create them for? Do you create things just to play with them, or do you create them to do interesting things with them? When you’re cooking, you can take the approach of just getting food on the table as fast or as cheap as possible, or you can do something <i>grander</i>.</p><p>There’s a ton of different paths you can take to dinner. Within each of those paths is more paths to choose from. I can make eggs or I can make bacon. I can scramble those eggs or fry them. I can use cheese, milk, or leave them plain. I can cook them more or less runny. The space of things to think about is endless.</p><p>But I’ll tell you what you can’t do to make breakfast. Play football. There is nothing about playing football that is in any way remotely like making breakfast.</p><p>God just forgiving us is playing football when he’s trying to make something in the image of Himself. Nothing about just forgiving us makes us in any way like God.</p><p>Humans are vehicles for agency, and we are often our own worst enemies. God is also a vehicle for agency, but God has no enemies. Not even Lucifer is His enemy. Nobody can challenge God, so God doesn’t need to fight anyone.</p><p>God “just forgiving us” implies that there was something we did to God to cause him to be angry. God’s perspective is vast, He sees everything we don’t see. For God, a teaching you a lesson that costs you your life means that He felt, with His omnipotence and omnipresence, that you were <i>better off</i> dying in that moment than in continuing your existence.</p><p>God did a lot of that in the events of the Old Testament. The New Testament has God trying a different approach to create man in the image of Himself. He gives us a teacher, then sacrifices the teacher. But God didn’t force us to kill Jesus. We did that all by ourselves. He knew that we would, because He is omniscient and can see the future.</p><p>The sacrifice of Jesus is a lesson we need to learn from.</p><p>At least, that’s the intended reading of the story.</p>
