---
layout: post
title: What is the purpose of a technical lead engineer, software architect, software developer, designer, quality engineer, and SEO expert? Do I need everyone on my team to build a high end, very complicated application?
date: 2018-07-08
---

<p>These roles gradually evolve out of existing developer roles as the needs become clear. In the beginning software teams typically consist of one or more devs who just do everything.</p><p>There generally is never enough resources to get everything done, so careful management and marshaling of resources is needed, hence one of the first specialized hires on a team is the <i>lead</i>. This is the engineer whose job it is to understand the project and architecture from a high level and translate technical discussion for the non-technical stakeholders.</p><p>They second specialized hire is usually a QA assurance specialist. Like the lead, QA’s job is to understand the project from a high level, but rather than acting as the representative of the stakeholders, QA represents the end user.</p><p>Somewhere around this time, a project manager is needed to take some pressure off the lead. His job is to keep the project moving smoothly by keeping track of all the work being done and taking on communication tasks that the lead was doing.</p><p>If the team keeps growing, and depending on the field, design will need to start coming in-house. Programmers typically make terrible designers, so most firms will retain design in a consulting capacity right from the start. Products really start to mature once they gain a full-time designer.</p><p>Architect is a specialized role that becomes necessary as teams grow past a dozen engineers or so. It gets hard to manage the high level details of an infrastructure so you need specialized talent.</p><p>SEO is an industry specific role that is most often contacted out, like design, as few companies will ever need to bring this role in-house. Their job is to handle the voodoo of getting the part of a company's web presence that they can't control to look good, like the part that shows up on search engines. They own a particularly knowledge-heavy and arcane domain.</p><p>To answer your question, you can only get as good a product as your team can build, and your team is only human. No one knows everything. Software development is a team effort. If your business requires something, often times you can roll with one of your software engineers, but technical talent is often too expensive to waste on anything that's not in their wheelhouse.</p>
