---
layout: post
title: Is it not true that atheism requires the same amount of faith that Christianity does?
date: 2018-06-04
---

<p>No, it’s not true. Belief in non-physical entities that you have to approach yourself in order to verify the reality of, takes mental energy that you have to keep generating throughout your life. Sometimes the belief starts to fade, the mental energy that you use to keep generating divine reality runs out, and the only thing that keeps you going is faith. God does leave the faithful from time to time, leaving you in a rut or otherwise away from His comforting embrace.</p><p>If you stay faithful, then He’ll eventually return, and you’ll know the wonders of belief again.</p><p>As a mystic, I find myself all over the belief-faith spectrum, every single day. Sometimes I live my truth very powerfully, other times I’m in a period of reflection. Faith, the ability to keep operating even without the tangible reality of God’s presence, is something I’ve needed to build up over the years until it’s almost as solid as God’s actual presence.</p><p>Even in my worst moments, when I’m farthest away from divine reality, my faith is utterly unshakable. It’s as much a part of me and my life as my skill in software development.</p><p>You build faith through grappling with the divine mystery. It starts with the sorts of questions atheists ask about belief, such as the problem of evil, but those are merely the beginning. But an avowed atheist will never bother grappling with divine mystery, preferring other kinds of mystery that are solvable with human effort and intellect.</p>
