---
layout: post
title: Would you believe in God if you were demon-possessed?
date: 2018-06-11
---

<p>I’m not afraid of demons. I can’t even imagine a situation in which demonic influence could do much more than annoy me.</p><p>The idea behind demonic possession is that, well, somehow, a demon colonizes your mind and starts influencing you to do things that are against your nature. I have to say, I know my own mind way, way, way better than any demon does. I’m going to know with a quickness if I find myself doing anything that I didn’t really want to do. I’m going to isolate that behavior and watch it incredibly closely.</p><p>I already do this, <b>all the time</b>. Any time I find new behavior, I want to know exactly how and why I did it.</p><p>The other day I was driving down the road, and there are these pedestrian crossings where people can hit a button and cause flashing lights to stop traffic. Well the signs say, “wait for pedestrians”, not “wait for the lights” but lots of people want to wait for the lights rather than the pedestrians. Well I’m trying to get somewhere so I start honking lightly to get people to move. Lightly doesn’t work so I start leaning on the horn. This gets them moving.</p><p>One guy didn’t like the way I used my horn so he pulled up along side me and flicked me off angrily. I flick him off right back. I think this is the end of it but the guy just won’t leave. He rolls down my window and I start wondering if I have to pull over and fight the guy. I’m definitely not about to have a heated conversation with the idiot while driving at 50+ miles an hour down the road. And he just won’t leave. I start worrying that he might have a gun and planning my course of action if I see one.</p><p>Meanwhile I start going apeshit on the guy, telling him to get the hell out of here, or we can pull over and I’ll beat the living crap out of him. Eventually he realizes that he <i>really</i> doesn’t want to be messing with me and drives off in a huff.</p><p>Why am I telling you this? Well, it’s this sort of experience that will start to lead people to believe that they’re not in their right mind. But I was observant, looking closely at what I was doing, even during the act, allowing my lizard mind to handle the basics of the situation while applying rationality with my prefrontal cortex to drive finer distinctions in outcome. This sort of reaction is what you train in martial arts to be able to have, rather than just shutting down at the first sign of threat.</p><p>Whether demons exist or not, I’m not saying they do or they don’t, their influence has to affect the mind somehow, but the mind is <i>your</i> domain. You don’t have to let the dark nooks and crannies of your mind go unexamined. You can look at them, shine a light in those unused corners. Find the critters that live there and give them some food and water so they don’t get resentful.</p><p>If I found out a demon got in somehow, I’d actually be a little excited. Oh! A new pet! What is it you need little guy? Can I do your hair up so you look cute? I want to show you to all the other neat little weirdos down here. Maybe one day we can have a talent show!</p>
