---
layout: post
title: Which mistakes should a beginner avoid when meditating?
date: 2018-12-03
---

<p>The biggest mistake when starting out meditating is not having fun. If it’s not easy, pleasant, fun, and interesting, then it’s not meditation. Even hardcore ascetic meditators who spend hours doing it at a stretch find it fun and interesting. So don’t work on your lotus pose in the beginning, just use a recliner. Don’t try to control your thoughts, just observe them operating.</p><p>The biggest obstacle when getting started is just convincing yourself to keep sitting there. And you’ll find yourself imposing all kinds of weird restrictions on what you’re doing in the vain attempt to increase the likelihood that you’ll start having more interesting experiences than just sitting there thinking about stuff. Then of course you’ll just get frustrated and stop, convinced you “can’t meditate.”</p><p>So where’s the line between meditating and not-meditating? At what point does just sitting there turn into an insightful journey into the depths of your mind? The answer is as simple as it is powerful. You’re meditating any time your mind isn’t in an ordinary frame. You can use a visualization technique, that’s meditating, because you don’t normally visualize in your day to day life. Or you can throw out the rulebook and just play. It can feel a lot like daydreaming. Daydreaming is underrated. It can be just as effective as “real” meditating when it comes to all those benefits people says it has. If you find yourself going to sleep, then just sleep and meditate after you wake up, it’s more powerful that way anyway. My best sessions are at 5 in the morning.</p><p>Don’t try to control yourself when you’re meditating. Control instead your instinct to control.</p>
