---
layout: post
title: I have so many passions, I’m confused about what to do? How do I get a clarity?
date: 2018-11-27
---

<p>Find the one thing you like to do over all others. This means actually trying out things until you realize what you like and don’t like about them.</p><p>I have, in the past, done three types of martial arts, one mixed and two traditional, learned how to play the piano, violin, and guitar, (not well!) taken dance, screen acting, and improv classes, had careers in the US Air Force, auto sales, life coaching, electrical construction, low voltage, commercial and residential, tried starting two companies, taken two two-month long trips abroad, joined a Wicca coven, found God, had my spiritual awakening, devised my own form of spirituality.</p><p>All this was before I turned 30. I’m 35 now, what have I done since then? Started my real career in software development and bought a condo. I’d done, and gotten invested in, so much other crap that I finally had a real North Star. For example, my trips abroad made me painfully aware of the fact that I’m a homebody. I like routine and structure. By running away from it, I learned how much I really needed it.</p><p>Coding is the one thing I can actually sit for eight hours in a stretch and actually do. I could never have been a screen actor, the lifestyle just doesn’t fit me. But I never would have found that out if I didn’t take the classes and seriously consider a career in it.</p><p>You learn what you love to do by doing everything else first and realizing you can’t love it forever.</p>
