---
layout: post
title: How can I connect with God without attending a meditation organization? Is it possible?
date: 2018-08-13
---

<p>The task at hand here is at the same time fiendishly difficult and seductively easy. The good news is that you’re already 90% of the way there. Most people in their whole lives never think or bother to want to connect with God. Either they don’t believe He exists or don’t want to personify Him or just plain don’t think it’s possible.</p><p>You’re past the why and are looking for how. Take a moment to appreciate that. It’s rare.</p><p>The easiest, quickest pathway to God is the straightest one. Suspend your disbelief and simply accept anything you feel while you meditate as coming from God. Speak to God in your head and assume it’s Him that’s answering. Treat whatever your imagination comes up with as Him communicating back.</p><p>Just assume you’re in communion with God already. It works better than you think. The desire is enough.</p><p>Okay so how to make this deeper? How to actually feel the connection rather than just assuming? To do this you need to make God <b>relatable</b>. There’s a reason He sent a son down into the world. The son is easier to build a personal relationship with.</p><p>It’s hard to have a correspondence with a giant glowing ball of light. God can take any form you want to put Him in, so put Him into a form that you can engage with. This was what was so magical about the mystery religions and Greek and Roman myths. It’s what’s so neat about Wicca. Flipping the gender around and engaging with the “goddess” has the cool effect of bringing divinity down to Earth. Dealing with a subset of divinity is already made mandatory by the fact that we limited humans simply can’t handle the full splendor of God. You can pick and choose which subset, God doesn’t mind.</p><p>Now that you’ve suspended disbelief and made an idea of God that you can actually talk to, now you need to build that connection. Visualize your deity in your mind when you meditate. Keep adding details to the visualization. What is God wearing? What’s his voice like? Imagine God, put an image of Him in your mind just like he made you as an image of Himself. Or Her.</p><p>Eventually your imagination will run away with you and your image will just start moving and talking. You can make it move and talk just to get a feel for how it happens in your mind. Then when it starts to move itself you’ll experience the difference. Don’t rush and have patience, this can take months, years to feel really natural. What makes it difficult is our minds, a lifetime spent ignoring the imagination doesn’t prepare us well for suddenly re-engaging it. But it’s like riding a bike.</p><p>Make it fun. Don’t just discuss matters of heavy, existential import. Live a little. Celebrate your connection with the divine. Don’t let it just be about what you want from God. Oh there’s definitely room for asking God for what you want. But keep your dignity, unless you really really want to lose it. Plenty of time and opportunity for soul-searing humility, that doesn’t need to dominate your relationship with God. Play.</p>
