---
layout: post
title: How do the believers in God (and I mean any God) justify the fact that God is eternal, yet He created &quot;something,&quot; the human being 6,000 years ago or &quot;matter&quot; billions years before (depending on faith), at a certain point in time?
date: 2018-04-30
---

<p>Personally I justify it by allowing that divine communication is extremely difficult, you have to limit yourself to concepts that whoever you’re communicating with can understand. So when God reveals himself to ancient Hebrews, he has to speak to them in language that they can understand.</p><p>Burning a bush, parting the seas, these are the things those uncultured hicks can understand. Yes, ancient Hebrews were uncultured hicks, most everybody was back then that didn’t live in a city, and cities of the day tended to breed wickedness. Wicked cities earned God’s wrath.</p><p>Jesus taught them mysticism, the practice of going to God to receive wisdom directly into your head rather than sitting around and waiting for him to speak to you. In your head, God can use more abstract language.</p><p>But trying to communicate a full understanding of divine reality, even with the aid of mysticism, is still outside of the human mind’s ability to fathom. I believe the fields of philosophy and mathematics are hugely important to expanding our minds’ capacities to grasp abstract concepts, but it’s still a long road before we’ll be able to comprehend a significant fraction of the full nature of existence.</p><p>Until then we’re stuck with spiritual beliefs, of which the idea that the Earth was made 6000 years ago is just one of. When particular beliefs stop being relevant, they transition from being <i>direct</i> beliefs, things you take as literal truth, to being <i>allegorical</i> truth, things you look to for beautiful, poignant renditions of transcendent truth.</p>
