---
layout: post
title: What factors have contributed to the success of Buddhism as a world religion?
date: 2018-05-22
---

<p>Three questions? Why not just ask them separately?</p><p>Anyway, Buddhism has not been successful as a world religion. It’s success on the world stage has been predicated on the notion that it’s <i>not</i> actually a religion. You see, while Buddhism was initially brought to the West by Chinese and Japanese immigrants, it was put onto the radar of popular culture by the self-help industry that sprung up in the 1800s.</p><p>Ramana Maharshi was discovered in India by a British spiritualist who went by the name of Paul Brunton. He wrote a book called <i>A Search In Secret India</i>. Buddhism was completely unknown in the West until Maharshi’s ideas were published, and it’s these ideas that became conflated with all of Buddhism.</p><p>Most Westerners who talk about Buddhism are actually talking about ideas that originated with Maharshi. Maharshi himself was a maverick among Indian the Buddhist establishment, not anyone whose ideas you should conflate with all of Buddhism.</p><p>Western society has been grappling with the immense success of Christianity since the advent of modernism. Modern society wants a diversity of ideas, and no idea is immune from question, so Christianity starts getting questioned in a multitude of ways going into the 20th century.</p><p>Alternative spirituality had been a thing for many many years, esoteric, gnostic, and pagan belief systems have been the main alternatives to Christianity for hundreds of years, so Buddhism just kinda fit right in, it was precisely one of these esotericists that popularized Buddhism amongst the alt-spirituality crowd.</p><p>It was Zen that really started to make Buddhism appeal to the growing atheist segment. Zen practice toed that line between secular epiphany that atheists craved, and mysticism, which they had a deep distaste for.</p><p>Eventually atheists started to find and develop mindfulness meditation, which sanitized Buddhist meditation of it’s supernatural elements and made it palatable for them.</p><p>Now you have a whole “industry” of Buddhism that’s been massaged carefully to appeal to Westerners, specifically those who had a deep distaste for the supernatural. The people you see claiming that Buddhism isn’t a religion are people who have never experienced “real” Eastern Buddhism the way it evolved for a thousand years after the death of the Buddha.</p><p>Try to call it a religion to them and it’s like you just preached heresy.</p>
