---
layout: post
title: Why are so many of the things God did in the Bible only righteous from a biased and far fetched point of view?
date: 2018-05-25
---

<p>Because we’re 3000 years away from the events depicted. It’s only going to get more so with time.</p><p>One thing you learn from trying to live with the presence of God in you <i>all the time</i>, is that God really can be with you <i>all the time</i>. As in, even in the parts of your life when you aren’t acting your best. Like say, when you’re conquering your neighboring tribe and your foot gets caught up on a root. God’s right there with you when an opposing soldier runs you through with his sword.</p><p>He told you He was going to deliver your enemies into your hand, and He told your enemies that He was going to deliver you into their hands. He might have lied to you, or them, but <i>He was still with you</i>. And God can have a truly wicked sense of humor when it comes to these sorts of things.</p><p>There is nothing for you to do but to <b>laugh with God</b>. There’s a grand narrative arc to God’s plan and you’re just a tiny part of it. You can’t go against it, God will just plan around you. God might reward you for your audacity or punish you for your idiocy. You won’t have any way of knowing which until you God shoves it in your face.</p><p>I know I’m not making a whole lot of sense here, but neither did the Bronze Age. It’s a spirituality borne out of the utter chaos of that point of time in the world. When life is nasty, brutish, and short, then the stories you come up with to make sense out of it all will do their damnedest to ascribe all that random chaos to some organizing force.</p><p>It just sounds biased and far-fetched to us now, because the Bronze Age really was that long ago.</p>
