---
layout: post
title: Have you achieved self realization or enlightenment? Can you explain the feeling of being enlightened?
date: 2018-12-30
---

<p>I was born enlightened, and I’ve spent my entire life building an understanding of what that means.</p><p>What does it feel like? In a nutshell, it feels like not needing anything at all. Like I’m already perfect. Any defects I find in the perfection are perfect defects. Whatever it is I do or build in any given moment simply brings about a more <i>precise</i> perfection.</p><p>Let’s say you’re throwing darts. You pick up a dart and throw it at a board. It doesn’t even hit the board. What do you do then? Do you lament that you’re not any good at darts and you’re suck at everything and adulting and life? I don’t. I laugh. That was a perfect dart throw, it perfectly missed the board. I laughed with God over just how much fun I’m having, to poke holes in the walls instead of hitting the dartboard.</p><p>I’ll pick up another dart and throw again. This time maybe it hits the board. I throw three hundred more times. I throw three thousand more times. I throw a million times. Each time, I make a perfect throw of a perfect dart at a perfect dartboard. The dartboard has hundreds of perfect little holes in it.</p><p>Getting tired of this analogy, I don’t throw darts, my passion is ping pong. When I started playing ping pong, I sucked. Everybody sucks at the beginning. I loved to suck at ping pong. When I stopped sucking at it, and started beating almost everybody I played, nothing changed my essential joy that filled me in <i>every single rally</i>. Every strike of the paddle on the ball, the high-speed calculation of spin and tactics.</p><p>It was perfect at the beginning, rather my game got more <i>precise</i> over the course of time. I don’t just love ping pong this way, I love everything this way. Programming computers, entertaining beautiful women. Writing Quora answers. Missing the high marks I set for myself don’t get me down, they just give me more interesting experiences to analyze and learn from.</p><p>This is what enlightenment <i>feels</i> like to me. Endless, boundless joy. Joy that’s present everywhere. When I’m sad, I’m joyously sad. When I’m angry, I rejoice in my anger. Negative emotions are <i>fun</i> for me, so much fun that I have trouble being relatable sometimes.</p><p>Sometimes the joy is intense, but most of the time it’s very subtle. It’s the subtle joy of knowing that if everything ended this very second, I wouldn’t regret a moment of it. The subtle but sublime, and ever-changing realization of perfection.</p>
