---
layout: post
title: How can I define myself with religion, mythology, or spirituality whilst I admit to myself that it is not literally true?
date: 2018-08-12
---

<p>It’s really not as hard as you’re making it out to be.</p><p>In the first place, the people that made religions 3000 years ago didn’t have the benefit of modern scientific understanding. The key is to realize that if they did have that benefit, scripture and theology would be very, very, very different. I don’t know how much you’ve read the Bible, but the cosmology it purports is obviously one of flawed and ignorant humans. Like, really, really, really obvious, to anyone who does even the barest amount of critical thinking.</p><p>Does this invalidate religion? No, of course not! Did you really think that the details of whether God made Adam from dirt or breathed him into existence is actually germane? Exactly how long did you hold it against your parents for lying about Santa Claus? Are you going to hate them forever for carrying on a centuries-old tradition? C’mon now.</p><p>The tradition of Christmas teaches a very, very important lesson about spirituality that everybody should learn. And remind themselves of every year around that time.</p><p>At some point, the literal truth just doesn’t matter anymore. Stories have meaning in and of themselves. And the stories of the Bible were never intended to be statements of flat, literal truth. If you think really carefully about it, the people that wrote the Bible didn’t even know what literal truth <b>meant</b>. The only truth intended to be conveyed by these stories was allegorical.</p><p>Whatever literal value they tried to sell was in the same vein as Santa Claus. Beautiful, meaningful, somewhat tragic myths.</p><p>The lack of literal truth to these myths doesn’t stop them from being relevant and useful. That’s all that really matters.</p><p>There’s a historical truth around the stories that’s definitely worth knowing, but when you start digging in, you’ll find that most of that work has already been done.</p><p>You know who did that work? Christians.</p><p>Christians who understood that making meaning out of life’s events is hard.</p><p>Christians who understand that people tell themselves convenient little lies to highlight the things that matter at the expense of things that don’t.</p><p>Christians who understand that truth isn’t only objective, it also manifests in whimsy and folly.</p><p>Christians who realize that they’re the only ones who <b>really</b> care about the fundamentals of their faith.</p><p>It’s the musings about divinity, the meaning of what’s moral, the effort to bring the kingdom of God down to Earth, that’s what matters about Christianity.</p>
