---
layout: post
title: If God asked you to die and go to hell to suffer for all eternity to save all the souls that already went there, would you do it?
date: 2018-03-21
---

<p>If God asked me to go to Hell, He wouldn't need to offer me a deal. I'd go quite willingly. Just to see what it's like. Eternity? That's not all that long. Certainly preferable to oblivion. I'm sure I'll be able to find something to do. I'll probably go myself after I die just to check it out and see if my intuitions about it were right.</p><p>Suffering for eternity? How is that any different from ordinary existence? Study Buddhism for awhile. Existence as a being separate from God is itself suffering. Oh you're worried about the lake of fire.</p><p>What makes pain pain? On one level, it's your body. You have nerves that transmit pain signals to your body. On a totally different level, it's your mind. If your body is overloaded with pain signals, your mind blocks then out. A real lake of fire, you wouldn't live long enough to feel the pain.</p><p>In fact, there's only one way to continuously torture someone. You have to watch them and keep up the cruelty. You have to get in their mind. That's what I'm interested in. Assuming Hell is real, and you really suffer there, then either you are causing yourself to suffer, or someone else is.</p><p>Otherwise you're going to eventually acclimate to the sensations. That's the way minds work. You experience the signal that rises above the noise. If existence is suffering, remember the Buddhists already figured out that it is, then that suffering is going to become noise eventually and you won't even perceive it anymore.</p><p>No, the real trick to Hell is its ability to continuously rise above the noise. That's what I'm curious about. If it's as simple as creating a body for you that always feels pain, they're going to have to do that to your mind too. Supremely curious as to how that works. Pain to me is already just another sensation. I don't hold on to any suffering for long. How would existence in Hell be any different than life on Earth?</p><p>I'd spend an eternity there to find out. The only danger really is that I might not really learn anything. But that's what I rely on God for, to keep me from wasting a whole lot of time chasing silly whims like that. I'm sure he'll have my back after I die just like he does now.</p>
