---
layout: post
title: Is there such a thing as enlightenment or is there just random people existing in chaos trying to come up with meaning to survive?
date: 2018-01-08
---

<p>Enlightenment doesn’t really exist. Sure, I’ve spilled a <b>lot</b> of ink over nonduality, what that means, how you reach it, what it does for you.</p><p>But it’s just a concept that you read about. Nothing more. You can find meaning in the concept, and so try to make it fit your life.</p><p>But you’re never going to actually excise the self. All you can do is successively deprioritize it in mind until you’re not ever having to deal with it anymore. Through concentration practice, you can have an experience of not existing. When the experience concludes, you go right back on existing.</p><p>I’m going to call these the <i>idealistic</i> issues. Enlightenment is an ideal, and you’ll never find the ideal, because the ideal exists in your head and the real world will never 100% match it.</p><p>It comes right back to Descartes, I think, therefore I am. Apply enough critical thinking to Buddhism and you find that they do actually make dogmatic and metaphysical claims. Saying there is no self, is an expression of belief and encodes a particular set of values. Those values may or may not be shared by everybody. And it feels like you’re right back where you started when you realize that.</p><p>This is the <i>dogmatic</i> issue. Spiritual enlightenment is, at it’s core, a shared set of beliefs about how “the universe” runs. This makes it a religion, and if that makes you uncomfortable, then you’re just buying into the dogma.</p><p>People go into Buddhism expecting to be transformed. And indeed, the process of becoming enlightened does transform you. But if all you were really looking for was to get over the trauma of getting bullied in high school, getting enlightened isn’t going to completely remove that from you. Because you still have a mind, and that mind still has patterns built into it. Spiritual enlightenment builds new patterns, but doesn’t completely erase old ones.</p><p>Eventually, spirituality will allow you to lay the past behind and charge forth confidently into the future with nothing holding you back. But it’s the long way around. It’s fixing yourself by first fixing the universe. You see, we have other ways of fixing people’s inner problems. Buddhism <i>does</i> offer a <i>more</i> universal salve to those problems than anybody else does, but modern society offers a truly stupendous variety of ways to help yourself or seek it out from others.</p><p>I call this the <i>hammer-nail</i> issue. Buddhism gives you a big hammer, and encourages you to look at all problems like nails. Sure, you can get a tree out of your yard with nothing but a hammer, but you’re going to be there for awhile, why not try this chainsaw?</p><p>None of these issues are unique to Buddhism, indeed, all religions share them. I don’t know how much or how long I need to hammer on this point, that <i>Buddhism is a religion</i>. Your problem is in not understanding religion or what it does or what it’s useful for.</p><p>So I know what you’re going to say next. Enlightenment doesn’t necessarily have to be Buddhist. Well, you’re right, it doesn’t. But it has to be attached to <i>some</i> system of belief. You strip all meaning out of the concept if you try to remove all mystic elements out of it. Enlightenment is supposed to be bigger than you are. It’s not in the same category of things to do as, say, learning how to basket weave. The best framing of enlightenment we have, nonduality, involves <b>disidentifying with your very self</b>. To make it mundane destroys it. And if it’s not mundane, then it has to involve something you think should be true, but don’t know if it is. In other words, belief.</p><p>If you want to try to come up with a new definition, go right ahead, I’ll wait. I guarantee you it won’t be nearly as good as nonduality. You’ll be lucky if you get half as compelling as Scientology.</p><p>So to answer your question, no, enlightenment doesn’t exist, however enlightened people do exist, but they aren’t who you think they are. They’re just like everyone else, random people existing in chaos trying to come up with meaning to live.</p>
