---
layout: post
title: I just found out that my license has been suspended for the last year and a half due to unpaid traffic tickets which I have warrants for, how do I go about getting rid of the warrants without jail time or a lawyer?
date: 2018-03-09
---

<p>One day I was driving to work and got pulled over, I believe for an expired registration. Cop asked me if I knew my license was suspended. I didn’t. My truck got towed and my father, who I worked for at the time and was close by, came and picked me up. The lot was very close by, so that’s the first place we went, and picked up my truck.</p><p>They wouldn’t release it to me unless I had someone else to drive. As he had his truck there, we would have needed a third person to get two vehicles out without me driving, but they decided to overlook that fact, and I drove my truck out of the lot. We left his truck at a mechanic’s shop that he knew and then he drove me around to get my license back.</p><p>I had several unpaid traffic tickets that I needed to take care of. The first we did was to go to the court where the license had been suspended and get a list of all the traffic tickets I needed to pay. We then went to three different courthouses and paid all the tickets. We then went back to the first court and showed the paid tickets and I got my license unsuspended.</p><p>It was a hassle, and expensive, but not much more than that. Nobody wants you to go to jail over traffic tickets, they’re not going to just toss you in there if you go to the court. If they were going to throw you in jail for the offenses, they would have done that instead of just giving you a ticket in the first place. You don’t need a lawyer. Just go pay the piper and you’ll be fine.</p><p>It is doubtful in my mind that you actually have warrants. Usually they just suspend the license. I’d think carefully back to however you found out your license was suspended and ascertain for yourself whether actual warrants are involved or not. A warrant is a fairly serious matter.</p>
