---
layout: post
title: What are your questions about the Bible and Christianity?
date: 2018-04-09
---

<ul><li>What are current theological debates going on amongst the various denominations?</li><li>How faithful are the varied Christian denominations to the spirit of the Bible?</li><li>What, generally, provokes a theological group to put out a new translation of the Bible?</li><li>What was the original purpose of the “descendants” verses of the Bible, where an individual’s family tree is given an inordinate amount of attention? Being that the stories were originally verbally passed down, this is a curious thing to see.</li><li>What were the religious, academic, and common environments of the Achaemenid Empire like when the Torah was written?</li><li>What ideas from Zoroastrianism cross-pollinated into Judaism? Did they share holy texts at all?</li><li>How did Jesus compare to David? David appears to be a sympathetic figure while Jesus is an aspirational one, but the differences were enough to provoke another religion to rise, so there has to be a lot more to that story.</li><li>What was the history of the split between the Catholic Church and the Orthodox Church? I know it hinged heavily on the nature of Jesus and the Holy Spirit, but that doesn’t seem severe enough to break Christendom in half over. Was it really a cultural divide dressed up as a doctrinal one?</li><li>What differences did varied medieval European nations have in their practice and conception of Christianity?</li><li>Did medieval Christians have the same trouble with the pre-Roman Biblical imagery as modern peoples do? I imagine there was quite a bit of consternation amongst the aristocrats who had the time and inclination to question such things.</li><li>How did the Vatican and the office of the pope change over time?</li></ul>
