---
layout: post
title: Some say that reading the Bible (or maybe some other religious text) is the fastest way to become an atheist. To what extent is this statement true?
date: 2018-06-10
---

<p>The Bible can be read by anyone to support any argument. This isn’t just true of the Bible. People are prone to find meaning in anything they read or otherwise encounter. I’m sure you’ve seen the endless flame wars about virtually anything on the Internet that people have come to really care about.</p><p>If you’re reading the Bible specifically to support a particular viewpoint, then you have an agenda. If you are not reading the Bible with an agenda, that means you’re coming to it from the same perspective as anyone who reads any work of literature.</p><p>My feeling is that the people that read the Bible and become atheist were already skeptical before they started reading the Bible and decided that keeping their skepticism was more important to them than challenging said skepticism.</p><p>If you come to the Bible without preconception, then a number of things leap forth just from the events and the choice of dialogue. First, the people in the Bible are rather stupid. Second, God is rather harsh with them.</p><p>I’m going to be honest here, anyone who reads the Old Testament without preconception is not going to become a Christian. This is because the Old Testament really wasn’t <i>intended</i> to be scripture. It’s the <i>New</i> Testament that was written to be the foundation of a religion.</p><p>If you read the Old Testament and want to believe in it, then you’re going to need to turn the ideas that are baked into it into everything else that a religion entails. This involves what we call <i>theology</i>. No fewer than six religions are based on the loose collection of stories that were penned four to two thousand years ago that Christians call the Old Testament.</p><p>Christianity itself is amazingly diverse and has all sorts of beliefs under its umbrella. The only thing that really unifies them is the New Testament. Some have come up with their own foundational texts, like Mormonism, and some disbelieve in extremely foundational mainstream original Church doctrines like the Trinity.</p><p>For me personally, I didn’t start reading the Bible until I already had been on a mystical path for close to fifteen years. When I finally started reading it, I found a work of amazing depth and mystical understanding. The people that wrote these books, were clearly incredibly mystical.</p><p>Mystical truth is ultimately reasoning that runs around in circles, and until you’ve been inculcated into the mindset, it’s easy to miss. So it does not surprise me a bit that people that come to the Bible with even a hint of a skeptical agenda wind up rejecting accepting any kind of truth from the Bible.</p><p>But this has nothing to do with the Bible in and of itself, but rather in the nature of that kind of reasoning and understanding. Skepticism causes mystical states of mind to flee and hide under a rock. It’s only with patience, understanding, and forbearance that mysticism can flower.</p>
