---
layout: post
title: Is losing your virginity unethical?
date: 2018-10-11
---

<p>Ethics concern applying moral reasoning to settings like business dealings where the stakes don’t rise to the level of “you’re a bad person and you should go to hell for doing this.” If it does rise to that level, then you’re looking at moral problems. Not having your interests represented adequately in a real estate transaction is an ethical problem, but not necessarily anything someone is going to hell over.</p><p>Things can be illegal without being immoral. What this means is that the proscribed action is bad for society if everyone does it. Collecting rainwater to water your garden with can in no way be considered an immoral act, but it’s illegal in many drought areas where rainwater collection at scale can affect river and water table replenishment.</p><p>The finer aspects of legality, ethics, and morality is often lost on people so they’ll turn every little thing into an attack on your character. This is where sexual prohibitions lie. Sex engages a very primal part of our brains, and so we tend to have very strong feelings about what’s right and what’s wrong about it.</p><p>Some societies are very concerned with sexual purity, that you’ve followed the right rules and there won’t be any crazy surprises on one person’s part when entering into something as serious as a marriage.</p><p>This falls into the illegal but not immoral category. Murder, the premeditated killing of a person for selfish reasons, I may be butchering the definition some, is immoral. Not satisfying someone’s sexual purity expectations, even in a society that values it highly, is not immoral, much as someone might try to convince you that it is. It might be <i>improper</i>, but it’s not <i>immoral</i>. Propriety and ethics are up to society to define, while morality is absolute.</p>
