---
layout: post
title: What is the mystery that mystics speak of?
date: 2018-10-01
---

<p>Ah the mystery. When I first heard the term I didn’t really know what it was that was being referred to. Over the years I came to realize that it’s just a less-intimidating way of referring to God.</p><p>“The mystery” is a way of referring to <i>everything</i> that one is ignorant of, that one wants to understand, that one feels like, if they expended just a little bit more <i>effort</i>, they could come to a more transcendent understanding of.</p><p>Exploration of your own ignorance at the meta level, when pursued over years and years, eventually yields the realization that there are transcendent truths that are always at the tip of the tongue, but never fully articulable, about ultimate reality.</p><p>You to explore little parts of ‘the mystery’ and it takes you on a little journey through spiritual reality to come to some realization. Then you start talking to other mystics and found parallels in your experiences, things you’re both exploring without even realizing it.</p><p>Have this experience, of seeing that you’re naturally exploring the same thing as someone else you just randomly ran into, leads one to want to use a term to articulate that shared desire to learn about those shared things.</p><p>One of you might be interested in angels, while the other is interested in past-life regressions, but you share a common, <i>mystical</i> interest.</p><p>That’s all the mystery is. Just that big thing you’ve found it worthwhile to spend your whole life exploring. The equivalence I drew earlier, that the mystery is just a less intimidating way to refer to God, is, well, true for those who want to see in the frame of God, but to those who believe in God and are mystics, “the mystery” is an acceptable stand-in for God. It’s all God when you get right down to it. But “the mystery” is a less dogmatic way of saying essentially the same thing.</p>
