---
layout: post
title: Why intelligence has evolved so fast in such a very short time period of life’s evolution timeline?
date: 2018-05-08
---

<p>It only appears that way because you don’t know what to look for. Brains are ancient, roughly 550 million years old according to certain estimates. High intelligence slowly evolved, mostly in mammals, but also in some birds, and by the time primates came around, lots of animals were pretty smart.</p><p>The idea of humans being specifically much <i>smarter</i> than other animals has largely been debunked. Most animals are well-suited to their ecological niches. Many exhibit social behaviors and what we would call culture. Some make tools.</p><p>The human brain slowly gained volume over a few million years after hominids and apes split. It went through several species of hominids before modern humans emerged. Each one was a little smarter than the last.</p><p>It’s commonly held that the ‘breakthrough’ adaptation was language. Unlike other adaptations, that one would have been relatively quick. Language hasn’t changed the brain all that much, it seems to be facilitated by two small areas. Language provides the mechanisms for transferring thoughts, but doesn’t make people that much smarter.</p><p>I don’t believe that today’s humans are all that much smarter than they were a few hundred thousand years ago. It’s just that language allowed us to work together over time, and this builds up. Eventually a critical mass was reached, but it took tens to hundreds of thousands of years to reach.</p><p>So, language is young, and happened recently. Intelligence is old, old, old.</p>
