---
layout: post
title: A close and introverted friend suddenly ignores text to meet up. Should I give her space and for how long?
date: 2018-01-23
---

<p>Text interactions routinely will go cold, and what you do when that happens is often grounds for continuing or choosing not to continue future interaction. You are right to ask this question.</p><p>You absolutely should give her space. Until a person has decided to invite you to be a close presence in their life, you need to give them space. You are not entitled to her time and attention. You need to really internalize this attitude if you want to learn how to treat people, especially pretty ladies, well.</p><p>That said, how much time should you take. The rule of thumb here is to give her enough time to miss you. Generally that’s a few days to a week. If she doesn’t respond after a few days, give it a week. If she doesn’t respond after a week, give it two. If not two, a month. Then two months. Then three.</p><p>Generally you’ll know at the two week mark that she’s no longer interested in continuing a friendship with you. But she might change her mind, so just keep “pinging” at less frequent rates until you’ve found somebody else.</p><p>All that said, now you need to learn how to ping. Keep it low-key. Assume the previous interaction is totally over and you’re starting something brand new. Don’t attack her, just see how she’s doing. Wait a bit before asking if she wants to meet up. Don’t just vomit your intentions all over her. Make her feel safe and welcome.</p><p>The manner and frequency that you interact with her all will play a crucial role in her decision of whether to interact with you or not. So don’t take any chances and stay on the nice, safe, and welcoming side.</p>
