---
layout: post
title: What are your thoughts while scrolling through Quora?
date: 2018-06-06
---

<p>Immediately under this question on my feed was “Did Jesus ever cross the land known today as Tennessee?” I answer a lot of spiritual questions and Quora always manages to throw the most hilarious ones my way. I chuckle and move on. I feel what the spiritual realm needs most is seriousness because there’s just no end to ridiculousness, and humor too often inadvertently leads to cynicism so I stay away.</p><p>Or maybe I can answer it, what would be a good approach to dealing with such a question that can accomplish my social media goals of being informative, useful, convincing, and mind-expanding. Eh, probably not. Moving on.</p><p>Oh look, another answer by <a href="/profile/Franklin-Veaux">Franklin Veaux</a>! I could use another dose of humility, let’s see what he has to say. I bet it’s going to make me feel totally inadequate about just about everything in my life, from my lived ethics to my accomplishments to the fact that I watch rap music videos, yet even the most kinkiest and craziest of them doesn’t even hold a candle to Franklin’s lived reality. Is this the answer that’s going to make me feel better about my life? Fuck no.</p><p>He’s basically kinky Jesus, unrelatable, came out of nowhere in his fifties with a life even better than perfect, made even worse by the fact that he’s a total utter atheist, so it’s practically impossible to get any useful advice out of him. He’s too busy living his perfect life to spend much time on creating and passing down wisdom. Well he thinks his posts convey wisdom. Can’t deal with this. Let me go read a <a href="/profile/Sean-Kernan">Sean Kernan</a> post so I can get a feel for modern Biblical David. Awesome, but still unsatisfying. I just hope when I’m Franklin’s age my life is more awesome, but yeah it probably won’t be. Comparing yourself to others is stupid anyway, and I’ve got lots to be thankful for.</p><p>I need relief, so let’s scroll down. Hey look, it’s a new <a href="/profile/Dima-Vorobiev">Dima Vorobiev</a> post! A more perfect escape from American idealism can’t be imagined. I don’t know if there’s anyone on Quora I can learn more from. Hmm, maybe <a href="/profile/User-13700852869600268893">User-13700852869600268893</a>. Nope, you just can’t replace Dima’s unparalled expertise in the human mind and how it works. If Rotty left I’d be really sad, but if Dima left Quora, I don’t know how much longer I’d last.</p><p>All in all, browsing Quora’s feed makes me keenly aware of my own inadequacies and the need to learn.</p>
