---
layout: post
title: Do enlightened beings get bored as they have already reached the ultimate and there is nothing left to be achieved?
date: 2018-10-26
---

<p>Enlightenment isn’t the end of accomplishment. It still feels good to do things. Challenges are still present to be overcome. I get just as much pleasure out of doing things as you, except maybe more because my mind isn’t quite as divided when it does things.</p><p>What enlightenment marks the end of is personal distress at not being able to do things. If I feel bad about something, I don’t identify with the badness and with the lack of identification, the actual bad feeling goes away fairly quickly.</p><p>Enlightenment also tends to remove illusions about what is responsible for accomplishment. I have a nice career as a software developer. Am I responsible for that career? I suppose, but it’s not the career I chose, I chose to work in intelligence for the US Air Force. A sequence of events led to me being a software developer instead.</p><p>I’m better off as a software developer, but I never would have gotten there on my own. To be enlightened is to be able to surrender your own goals and wishes to those of ‘the universe’. Nowadays I call it “God.” God and I worked together to find out the right place for me.</p><p>I was able to walk away from my dream of being an intelligence analyst, being an intelligence analyst never defined who I was, nothing did.</p><p>You become enlightened by shedding all identifications. You flow like water to whatever needs you. You grow and build from a stream into a river. As a river, you overwhelm and erode obstacles just through the force of your being. There is no relationship between accomplishment and boredom, because the identity that would bind them together, that of a person that feels bad if they’re don’t get things done, if they don’t have something to do, that needs to <i>be someone</i>, isn’t present.</p><p>There’s just a person that accomplishes the tasks set out in front of them. Whatever’s there, that’s what I do.</p>
