---
layout: post
title: Is God responsible for everything? Is there anything God is not responsible for? Isn&#39;t it impossible for free will to exist if God is responsible for everything?
date: 2018-05-23
---

<p>The way most Abrahamic religious theology pans this out is, there are things that are God, and there are things that are not God. Things that are not God, God can reach out with his Holy Spirit and control them. If God does not do this, than they operate on their own volition.</p><p>So no, God is not responsible for everything. Where a lot of people get tripped up is in in believing that God has an <i>obligation</i> to do things they consider to be good, such as preventing murders and such. This, first off, is not supported by scripture. God has a <i>plan</i> and He intends on sticking to that plan. Things we consider evil are just part of that plan, and He intends for humans to wrestle with evil ourselves.</p><p>The omnibenevolence of God rests in the ultimate goodness of that <i>plan</i>, not every single one of God’s decisions. The narratives of scripture, particularly the Old Testament, concern God’s wrestling with humankind’s flaws. If you read deeply into the stories, you realize that if God just whitewashed these flaws out of humanity, then, well, we wouldn’t be human anymore, our ability to choose to be not like God is what makes us human.</p><p>This is foundational Abrahamic theology, and the various Abrahamic religions believe different things about God’s plan. Jews believe that the focus of God’s plan is on them as descendants of the Patriarchs. Christians believe it’s on all of humanity, particularly those who accept Jesus. Muslims double down on morality, conversion, and people’s works and deeds.</p><p>All Abrahamic religions believe in the same sort of God-given free will, but they differ slightly in how you <i>should</i> employ it.</p>
