---
layout: post
title: Why does everyone want to know the truth, if no one dares to listen to the truth?
date: 2018-01-25
---

<p>Truth is both <i>contextual</i> and <i>personal</i>. Personal means that one person’s truth is another person’s garbage. Unfortunately in the English language we fail to have a good word for “actuality.” A good way of articulating the difference between truth and actuality is to interview three witnesses. They may each have different narratives, and all the narratives could be true, <i>from the point of view of the witness</i>, but actuality is what happened <i>on the security tape</i>.</p><p>The contextuality of truth means that things that are true one moment may become untrue the second. If you’ve ever heard the idiom, “you made a liar out of me,” you’ll know what I mean. In the most dead simple case, the truth of the statement “John is alive” is irrevocably changed once John dies.</p><p>There is no “one” truth. Actuality is actuality, but actuality can’t tell you anything <i>meaningful</i>. Events need interpretation. We can use moral philosophy to approach a universal truth, but there’s plenty of unsettled questions. When is killing another person justified? This question is a minefield of edge and corner cases.</p><p>A naive interpretation might be “only in self-defense.” Well what if you’re at war? International war law help us to understand some of the nuances. But nothing’s ever truly settled. “Truth-seeking” can be seen as only really being able to apply to a very small domain. There will always be contexts in which the truth you find won’t hold.</p>
