---
layout: post
title: How can I find a reputable spiritual teacher&#47;mentor in the United States?
date: 2018-08-21
---

<p>The first thing you need to realize is that intuition matters. If you have a gut feeling about something in this space, that gut feeling is never wrong. Let your feelings be your guide. I’ve let gut intuition choose all kinds of things for me in life, and it’s never steered me wrong. Sometimes you get ‘epicycles’ where things seem like they’re taking a turn for the worse, but it always rights itself in the end, and you can look back on it and realize that things are now better off than if you hadn’t made that gut decision in the first place.</p><p>The second thing to realize is that once you go with a gut decision, don’t let your head talk you out of proper follow-through. It’s easy to get cold feet, and turn back when things get hard. Ignore your head and keep doing gut checks. Do you really want to stop? No? Then keep going.</p><p>The third thing to do is to make sure to take some time out to reflect back on the journey. Your gut will lead you into lots of things your head won’t like, but when you can use your head to later integrate what caused you to start, what you managed to learn, how you grew as a person and in spirit, then your head will relax and let you enter into new adventures without reservation.</p><p>The final thing to realize is that there really aren’t any wrong directions other than staying still. When I wanted to explore, I simply looked in the newspaper and found a pagan spirituality discussion group a town over. I didn’t obsess over finding the ‘right’ spiritual group. I just went to this one that I had in front of me. In the absence of better choices, the one right in front of you is always better than not doing anything at all.</p><p>You should only fear one thing, and that’s stasis.</p>
