---
layout: post
title: Are all spiritual practices convergent?
date: 2018-06-08
---

<p>I think spiritual <i>belief</i>s are ultimately convergent. But you have to escape the realm of belief and re-enter it from a different perspective in order to see that.</p><p>So, an example is in order. How can reincarnation be compatible with Heaven? It can’t, if you follow a particular religion the way they want you to follow it, then there’s no space for reincarnation in the common understanding of the Christian afterlife.</p><p>So your mind might first be drawn to the dichotomy that’s been drawn. Which of these two outcomes are true? Only one of them can be true, which one? Your mind has left the realm of belief.</p><p>If you don’t go any farther, if you’re not interested in examining the question any further, then you’re walking the path of materialist atheism. You can’t trust belief, so put your faith in that which can’t be internally inconsistent.</p><p>I suppose you could spend your whole life there just as you can spend your whole life as a believer. But it’s unsatisfying, and, at least in my case, I wound up spending over a decade exploring non-mainstream spirituality, starting with a non-mainstream religion, Wicca, and continuing through various teachers including Osho and Dr. David R Hawkins, then finally making up my own spiritual ideas.</p><p>Now that I’ve run around a really large cross-section of the realm of spiritual mysticism, I’m returning to where it all began, Christianity. With all that experience beating my head against things that defy easy explanation, I see there’s something infinitely special about the world’s religions, that even most of the people that believe in them don’t manage to grasp.</p><p>And now it’s easy for me to see the singular truth that all spiritual and mystical systems point to. How that truth is <i>structured</i>. How it revolves around individuals, how if you try to take those individuals out, then the very idea of truth breaks down.</p><p>So yes, all spiritual practice and truth converge on one thing. Self.</p>
