---
layout: post
title: Why didn&#39;t God destroy the devil when he sinned and end the sin problem?
date: 2018-06-08
---

<p>Oh bless your heart. The devil don’t make people sin. He just makes it easier for people to make the choice to sin.</p><p>Devils are everywhere. The bar on the corner when you’re an alcoholic. Cute 12 year old boys when you’re a pedophile. Anything that leads you into temptation into doing something you know you shouldn’t be doing is a devil. It’s the little voice in your head scheming ways you can get away with doing stuff.</p><p>When Jesus said, “get thee behind me, satan,” to Peter, in his hot hit single, Matthew 16:23, He wasn’t literally calling Peter the Devil. He was speaking figuratively, and giving a shoutout to the last music video he actually did make with Satan, you know the one where they spent 40 days filming? You know the Bible, just full of shoutouts. You’d think it’s a rap collab.</p><p>Christians are much too concerned with personifying evil. When you personify evil, you push the responsibility for it onto something other than you. But that little voice is a part of you. You made yourself into an alcoholic. You may not have made yourself into a pedophile, but it’s still your responsibility to not hurt children.</p><p>You can’t destroy the devil any more than you can destroy sin. Because the devil didn’t invent the capacity to sin. You and I created that, just by existing.</p><p>Christians believe you can turn to Jesus to cause the death of sin. This is great because when you have Jesus in your heart, you’re not going to be thinking about going into that bar.</p><p>You don’t even have to be a Christian to see how this works. When you build a personal relationship with something that symbolizes perfect good, putting that idea in your mind when you’re tempted scares it away.</p><p>The devil can’t live in the mind that has been already colonized by Jesus.</p>
