---
layout: post
title: Is it possible to experience a permanent state of enlightenment?
date: 2018-12-16
---

<p>I’ve been enlightened since birth. Permanent enough for you?</p><p>When I was in my late teens, I started getting interested in spirituality. I explored both Eastern and Western traditions. I joined a Wicca coven, learned how to meditate, and just read and tried anything I could get my hands on. It took me some 6 years in between learning what enlightenment was and actually accepting that I was already enlightened.</p><p>The difficulty for me was in determining <i>when</i> I became enlightened. All the books I’d read by enlightened people all described an “enlightenment event” where by the person discards mundane life in exchange for a blessed, endlessly spiritual existence.</p><p>I scoured my past looking for such an event. But I came up empty. I’ve always been smart, always been precocious, I’ve never had an event whereby I suddenly discarded my ego or whatever. I have the same kind of existence now as I did 20 years ago.</p><p>In fact, the main thing I learned about personal and spiritual growth is that the real stuff, what I call consciousness growth, happens slowly over the course of a lifetime. I can define enlightenment as the state of constant surrender. But what allows you to know what to surrender is what consciousness growth provides. You get born with a certain level of consciousness and it determines how quickly you move from difficulty to understanding what is needed to surrender to remove said difficulty.</p><p>Enlightened people move smoothly from the need to surrender to actualized surrender. The things I had studied throughout my life gave me a thorough grounding on what to look for, internally, when one has a problem or a concern. My meditation practice allowed me the ability to actually explore and discover truths for myself.</p><p>So rather than needing to discover a doorway that I would then need to walk through, I only needed to learn what enlightenment was before I could figure out how it worked, and once I knew how it worked, I could immediately start actually using it. Unenlightened people are unable to use the material even if they read and understand it because too much is in the way.</p><p>I believe I became this way over many previous lifetimes and I even have theories about how the world outside this one works that accounts for why we don’t have more people like me in the world.</p>
