---
layout: post
title: Why is so hard to explain your philosophy to a person that has different religious beliefs? It never seems to go anywhere and there is rarely any middle ground.
date: 2018-06-17
---

<p>If you want middle ground, you have to build it. It doesn’t just magically exist.</p><p>My favorite middle ground to create is the idea that everyone is ultimately benevolent and working towards the benefit of mankind. This is a fun one to use with Christians, it causes all kinds of juicy cognitive dissonance in the ones that really want to believe in the existence of evil.</p><p>How do you use it? Well you make an argument with that as the premise. If the topic of the discussion is, oh say, big banks messing up the economy, then you can start to wonder out loud about the individual people in the banks and what their motivations were. Most people don’t realize that modern society is built on the premise that selfishness ultimately drives benevolent outcomes. It has to be, otherwise inequality would have truly run away from us a long time ago and we’d all be living in dystopian hell.</p><p>So you introduce the middle ground and see how much support you have for it. Sometimes you’ll find agreement, in which case you can build on top of it, by seeing how far the agreement goes. Shade closer and closer to your own point of view until you find a point of contention.</p><p>In my experience, most disagreements boil down to semantics, or differences in what people think words should mean. I don’t like this kind of argument, so I try to find agreement in this space as soon as I can so we can move on.</p><p>You have to start seeing a discussion in which agreement and disagreement are the rhythm to the music. If disagreement threatens to escalate, then back off to the middle ground where you both agree and see if you can work <i>together</i> to isolate the specific source of the contention. If you’re patient enough you can usually find a resolution and that’s nice, because it means you’ve both learned something.</p><p>There’s always a middle ground, no two people are so different that they don’t agree about <b>anything</b>. It’s just a matter of finding it and building off of there.</p>
