---
layout: post
title: What is consciousness and how did we get it?
date: 2018-05-01
---

<p>A good place to start here is the Wikipedia page on the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_functions" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">executive functions of the brain</a>. Here you are faced with the fact that what we think of as a smoothly functioning whole — consciousness, is actually a whole collection of individual brain functions, each of which can be more or less developed, or more or less functioning at any given time.</p><p>After you wake up in the morning from a long sleep, certain parts of your brain are still inactive, while others are immediately functioning. It can take some time for you to fully wake up. These things aren’t hardwired into your brain, do something in the morning often enough and those brain pathways will preemptively start activating so you can do them well. Such as driving to work.</p><p>So consciousness is essentially, “what the brain does when it’s fully operating.”</p><p>How did it evolve? The answer to that depends on exactly what you’re trying to point to. If you’re pointing to the ‘larger’ form of consciousness, shared by all aware, thinking animals, then you’re looking at when nervous systems arose, as that’s your ‘zero-to-one’ event for aware, alert consciousness.</p><p>These are the vertebrates. Evolutionarily speaking, the backbone was more important than the brain. The brain formed in a process called <i>cephalization</i>, when sense organs and executive function concentrate into an area.</p><p>Curiously, vertebrates aren’t the only creatures with cephalized body parts. Arthropods have cephalized legs, and the cephalopods have cephalized arms. This means that these parts have mini-brains of their own and can self-direct.</p><p>Now, if you were asking about what is commonly attributed to sentience, that is, the thing that separates us from animals, currently it’s unknown, the best theory running is that it’s not so much physical differences in the brain but rather what they’re doing.</p><p>Specifically, the development of language is thought to be what truly set us apart. One of my favorite speculative books on this topic is <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Adams-Tongue-Humans-Made-Language-ebook/dp/B002LATV1Q" data-qt-tooltip="amazon.com"><i>Adam’s Tongue</i></a>. Something happened in our brains that facilitated its development.</p><p>My running theory on the broader sense of evolution (how does anything arise, not just biological traits) is that systems quickly reach the edge of what’s useful, and don’t progress further until a future event makes new things useful.</p><p>What this means in the context of language development is that animals don’t need language in order to function, so they don’t develop it. Their communication systems are good enough.</p><p>At some point in the distant past, ours wasn’t. So something in our brains made a switch, and humans fairly suddenly started talking to each other. Experimentation with smart animals has revealed that it’s not necessarily impossible to teach them to communicate with humans, the higher cognitive functions that allow them to process abstract concepts are simply missing.</p>
