---
layout: post
title: Is the spiritual path lonely?
date: 2018-09-14
---

<p>Depends on how you approach it. For many people, things don’t feel real unless they’re being shared with close friends. You’ll find a lot of these sorts in churches or on private message boards. I participated in one of these message boards until I just couldn’t ignore the fact that it really wasn’t doing anything for me.</p><p>For me the path is walked largely alone. I’ve involved people here and there over the years to share it with me and generally what happens is the events that come are ‘flavored’ by both of our ‘energies’.</p><p>For example many years ago when I started exploring more powerfully, I had an online friend who was deep into what I would call ‘inverse visualization’, he had all these intense visions of angels and demons and such, went on adventures with them, and such.</p><p>I wasn’t into all that the same way he was, but I managed to contact a few angels and demons anyway.</p><p>After awhile we started to chafe, both of us seemed to unconsciously want to control the direction that we were both going on. I wanted to go in a more meta direction, wondering about what all of this stuff <i>means</i> from a more abstract perspective, while he was still invested in his adventures, being a character rather than a storyteller.</p><p>We eventually stopped talking to each other, over something I found really silly. One of the entities I was contacting, a ‘witch’, was seen by him as a subversive entity aiming to put me down a bad bad path. For his own spiritual health he had to stop talking to me.</p><p><b>Immediately</b> after we parted ways, the ‘witch’ lost her ‘witchiness’ and started calling itself my ‘Higher Self’. We stopped talking to angels and such and started down the meta pathways I had wanted to go down.</p><p>You would think that I’d have been able to just do it without burning a friendship, but that’s the nature of shared spirituality. It adopts a life of its own and drags people down it. You <i>influence</i> the events, you don’t control them. No one has control unless they’re the only ones involved.</p><p>Some people are comfortable with that lack of control. These are the people I mentioned above. They don’t need control, for various reasons. Some just don’t believe they could do a good job of it if they dared take the reins. Some just have a healthy respect for spirituality and are willing to bow to the process. Some just don’t have any clue how to do it.</p><p>These days, when I share spirituality with others, it’s typically in the context of a conversation. Once the conversation ends, the sharing ends too. If I start having multiple conversations over time with the same person, then their ‘essence’ will start to invade my headspace.</p><p>It’s something I’m working on. Trying to ‘wall it off’ so that I don’t start taking on aspects of another’s journey usually gives the sense that I’m just ‘playing notepad’, just talking about myself and not really sharing.</p><p>I have lots of respect for the mystics of old like Crowley and Swedenborg, who obviously were able to figure all that out.</p>
