---
layout: post
title: What are the functions of the mind?
date: 2018-07-19
---

<p>I devised a framework a few months back for dividing consciousness into functions. The framework goes as follows:</p><ol><li>Intellect</li><li>Wisdom</li><li>Ego</li><li>Identity</li><li>Perception</li><li>Awareness</li><li>Responsiveness</li><li>Consciousness</li></ol><p>Mind is the first four functions, being is the last few functions. Since you asked about mind, I’ll discuss how that half of it works.</p><p>The overall content of the mind is the <i>pattern</i>. When you perceive something, the mind matches it to a pattern and then uses that pattern to bring <i>meaning</i> to awareness. (this is perception)</p><p>The patterns themselves are the domains of intellect, wisdom, ego and identity. Each of these functions can be ‘stacked’ on top of the lower ones. Wisdom is stacked on top of intellect, ego on top of that, identity on top of the whole lot. The reason for that order is because as you gather more and more of one of them, the next step becomes clearer.</p><p>The more intellectual knowledge you gain about a thing, the more the transcendent understandings of those things stand out. When you find transcendent understanding, you can apply it to other things that aren’t the things you gleaned them from. For example, if you learn enough about computer programming, you can apply what you learned, say, to law. You can see law in terms of systems, albeit those operated by humans rather than machines. This is wisdom.</p><p>When you gather enough wisdom, the wisdom eventually collects into a big blob and makes it hard to gather more. This is ego. You have to lessen the ego in order to collect more wisdom. The technique of lessening ego is usually called surrender. Once you surrender ego, your identity becomes more clear.</p><p>Everything in mind can be fit along the continuum from intellect to identity.</p>
