---
layout: post
title: Why should I trust the Bible?
date: 2018-04-16
---

<p>The Bible, and by extension, all works that call themselves Scripture, including works like the <i>Bhagavad Gita</i>, attempt to set themselves apart from other narratives and arguments and such by their sheer <i>narrative weight</i>. Everyone knows that God could not have created the world in six days, you’re just supposed to conveniently overlook this and look to the <i>allegorical</i> value of the story rather than the literal face value.</p><p>Sure, these days people some people believe in the literal truth of the Bible, and people actually believe in theological concepts like the Triune God, but back when these stories were passed around by word of mouth, nobody believed literally in their content, they were treating the source material the same way that, say, some guy who dresses up in Jedi robes and opens a lightsaber training school treats <i>Star Wars</i>. As something <i>worth believing in</i>.</p><p>So you can look at the stories of the Bible as the Star Wars of their time. Works so powerful and amazing that they deserve to be elevated above everything else.</p><p>Eventually those people, who even at the time were looked at as silly deluded rubes, just like someone who dresses up as a Jedi would today, created something absolutely amazing and impressive, a true political counterweight to the European royal and aristocratic establishment. That’s the power of belief.</p><p>The Bible is absolutely worth reading. And the lessons in the Bible are absolutely worth trying to understand. Even now. You simply can’t get an appreciable-enough understanding of modern culture without it.</p><p>What you can’t trust is everyone who claims to speak on behalf of the Bible. The reality is, like everything else, people are bound to misinterpret the spirit and content of the Bible.</p><p>But even if you choose to not believe in God or Jesus, you really should understand what the Bible tries to convey.</p>
