---
layout: post
title: Does the afterlife&#47;paradise have any guarantees?
date: 2018-06-07
---

<p>My understanding of the afterlife, well, all of existence, not just the afterlife, is that it’s ultimately governed by the principle of <i>omnibenevolence</i>. It’s just that the principle takes primacy in determining what the afterlife is like.</p><p>What this means is that you’ll get the chance to ‘fix’ your current life in the one after. The things you wanted, you’ll be able to have. It’s a realm of endless plenty and wonder.</p><p>What happens when you’re done fixing your life? Well, what do you want to do? God’s going to beckon to you to see if you want to move towards the light. The light removes the separation between you and God and you ‘join’ Him. But you might not want to. You may want to remain separate from God. So then it’s possible that you can reincarnate or find a different mode of existence.</p><p>If you don’t understand the difference or understand how to make the decision, God will generally prod you one way or another, gently coaxing you into a good frame of mind in which to decide. But in all cases, the choice is the best possible one you could make. God understands you far far better than you can yourself, so He already knows how you’re going to decide. But he still pushes you to make it of your own free will and in the afterlife, you have all the time in the world to come to the right frame of mind.</p><p>Christians believe in Heaven and Hell, and the way I see this is that Heaven is a place in which you can spend literally eternity, it never gets old or boring. But in order for humans to stand to be in Heaven, they must be extremely spiritually pure otherwise you will get bored or disillusioned or otherwise uninterested in spending time there. Purgatory is the name given to the place where people who want to go to Heaven but don’t really have the inner makeup yet to stand to be there for long. Hell is for those who need a lot more work.</p><p>It’s all based on one thing, omnibenevolence through the development of free will. With literally no distractions keeping you from your task of defining yourself and how you want to exist, you have all the time in the world to reflect and decide, “how do I want to exist?”</p><p>It’s my belief that every human has existed before they were born here. They <b>chose</b> to come here, knowing it would be hard. They wanted something you can’t really get anywhere else. True, unmitigated consciousness growth. Where you can find God if you want to, but can also find yourself apart from God. Not as possible in the space between worlds.</p>
