---
layout: post
title: Why did God sacrifice Himself to Himself to change a rule He made Himself?
date: 2018-04-30
---

<p>Because the ancient Hebrews won’t believe or listen to a darned thing until God actually tells them. It’s written right into scripture, the story of the prophet Jeremiah and the trials he had contending with false prophets. Ever since, Jews are mightily skeptical of anyone claiming they’re the next prophet.</p><p>God has to make himself known to them every single time. God tried to teach them how to recognize holiness from wickedness, but the Hebrews manage to fall for wickedness anyway. Eventually God put everything into a line of kings beginning with David, but the line died out after God realized that his chosen people were no longer worth protecting.</p><p>He then leaves the Jews for four hundred years before sending a new prophet. No longer interested in the baggage of the old myths, he instructs Jesus to make new ones.</p><p>Very little of Jesus’ ministry reflects the events of the Hebrew Bible. Jesus is an iconoclast, throwing out the old and ushering in a new age, in which God is no longer just of the Jews, but of all who hear of him.</p><p>Jesus’ sacrifice is intended as a poignant lesson to all, and his trial and subsequent execution paint a picture of a good man dying to appease political whim.</p><p>Naturally, God’s chosen people being who they were, they argue over the irrelevant parts of Jesus’ life and lessons, while ignoring the real point. As such we have silly arguments over crusty old theological concepts like original sin.</p>
