---
layout: post
title: Why do a good amount of Christians question eternal torment?
date: 2018-08-23
---

<p>Spirituality is predicated on <i>beauty</i>, you won’t be likely to believe in something if you think it’s ugly. And rightly so, one should never make space in one’s mind to think about possibilities that one finds ugly. From a theoretical standpoint, sure. But from the perspective of actual people experiencing something ugly and horrible, <i>forever</i>, it’s just the realm of horror and nothing to bother yourself with, unless you’re looking for a fun ride.</p><p>Religions are in the business of deciding what’s true and what’s not true. Concepts have to fit together, well, <i>conceptually</i>. Meaning everything needs to have a purpose. But the space of truth is so incomprehensibly <i>vast</i>. You’d be truly stunned at the sheer number of questions that a religion just <i>doesn’t have the answer for</i>.</p><p>One of these questions is what happens to babies when they die. People have ideas about this, and those ideas proceed from the general themes of Christian salvation and grace, but those themes are intended to provide a framework for children and adults to guide their actions and thoughts by. But there is no magisterial doctrine from the Catholic Church defining what’s true in this instance. There may be a decision in the next 500 years, but it may never come.</p><p>Specifics about the afterlife are just really really hard to call true. It’s the realm of God, not the realm of men.</p>
