---
layout: post
title: Would you consider people like Dr. Phil and Oprah to be enlightened?
date: 2018-10-08
---

<p>In order to become enlightened you either have been born enlightened or you must search for it so you can believe in it so that you can strive to attain it. It’s a different category of goal attainment than any kind of worldly success.</p><p>You have to push your mind in different directions, spiritual enlightenment is not incompatible with worldly success, but most people find it really difficult to have any kind of ‘serious’ worldly goal while they’re going through the process of surrender and growth. Worldly has the nasty effect of dragging you back into the world of the self, of ego.</p><p>One of the things you learn as a result of the enlightenment process is that all ‘success’ comes from the universe, from God, whatever you want to call it, the point is none of it is yours nor could it have ever been achieved solely under your own steam.</p><p>Surrendering to this state of affairs is necessary to achieving enlightenment. Abrahamic theology involves itself with the specifics of how the deserving get rewarded but the enlightened have surrendered the need to become deserving so that one can get rewarded. Spirit works through you, you are but a conduit.</p><p>Specifically in the cases of Dr. Phil and Oprah one would need to know how their internal minds are operating in order to ascertain their state of inner surrender. It is not a matter of whether they have learned or grown from their journey, everyone learns from their journey.</p><p>One nasty thing about the world and succeeding in it is that success has a way of dragging the mind back down into identification. If you spend a lot of time using the techniques of spiritual surrender to attain worldly success, something that’s very possible, and even getting easier due to teachings like the Law of Attraction, then once you get there, you’re going to need to learn anew how to disidentify with that success and not let it become ‘who you are’.</p><p>If you, instead of doing the spiritual work to surrender, let yourself get caught up in defending your success, then you’re letting yourself get slowly dragged down from a spiritual mindset. This is common experience for people who become successful and it’s just another part of the journey. Needing to have the experience, means you’re not enlightened.</p><p>The journeys that the enlightened go on cannot be reduced to problems of ego identification. You never considered the success yours, it’s God’s, so you just ask Him, or whatever external source of guidance you’ve cultivated, for how or even whether to defend it. This experience, the ebb and flow of Spirit through and around you, is how the enlightened make meaning out of existence.</p>
