---
layout: post
title: If Jesus is God and the Second Person of the Trinity, why did God the Father have to anoint Jesus during his water baptism with powers to perform miracles, as it clearly tells us in Acts 10:37-38?
date: 2018-06-13
---

<p>The doctrine of the Trinity did not evolve until long after the New Testament was settled and nothing new was added. So as a result, the scriptural narrative isn’t going to line up perfectly with the doctrine.</p><p>If you <b>need</b> all this stuff to line up perfectly, you should ask yourself just what you are looking for out of your religion. If you study early Christianity it becomes extremely clear that while these writings may have been <i>inspired</i> by God, God Himself didn’t actually write them. So discrepancies in message can creep in.</p><p>Secondly, there are non-trinitarian Christians, belief in the Trinity is not strictly needed. The one that comes to mind here is <i>adoptionism,</i> which holds that Jesus didn’t become divine until after his baptism. That was a significant faction in early Christianity. It died out as <i>preexistence</i> was just way more popular.</p><p>Finally, Church doctrines and theological positions should always be seen as being at least somewhat speculative regarding the true nature of God, regardless of the stated positions of spiritual leadership. This doesn’t mean you should not listen to anyone with such an idea, but rather try to understand and think about the ideas more deeply.</p><p>God would much rather you come up with your own position and be wrong, rather than blindly obey someone else. Otherwise He’d have just announced His own preferred theology to people.</p>
