---
layout: post
title: So you have met a new great guy with the best personality but you have zero physical&#47;sexual attraction towards them. What can you do to feel attracted to them?
date: 2018-01-08
---

<p>You should try exploring <i>eroticism</i>. My favorite way of doing this is through erotic literature. Literature is good because it redirects focus away from the senses and towards the mind.</p><p>When you read a sexy story one of the things you can get off on is the narrative progression. Pay close attention to each specific interaction between the two main characters and play through in your mind the feelings the events put in those characters.</p><p>The other aspect that literature usually explores is fetish. If you’re reading a BDSM story, the pageantry and elaborate power games are usually first and foremost, taking a person’s mind through resistance to submission to another’s will is the whole point. Descriptions of how the characters met and first interacted is typically left out, this makes BDSM unsuited for exploring what is attractive to you. Honestly I’d just start with romance and bridge out into the more fetish-heavy genres as you get comfortable. I wouldn’t jump in the deep end, this stuff can get <b>really</b> weird.</p><p>You might have to explore a lot of lit to find something that you like, but the effort is worth it. You’ll be building a map in your head of how to go from totally uninterested to raring to go and begging for more.</p><p>What you then have to do next is <i>share</i> that vision with the guy you want to be attracted to. When you’re interacting with him, think about him putting you through some of the situations that really get you going. Maybe drop a little hint or two or three and see if he picks up on it. A lot of times just sharing what gets you off with someone is all you need to suddenly feel attraction towards them.</p><p>If he can do things that you find erotic to you so that you can share it, then that’s the textbook definition of you having sexual interest in him. You just have to clue him in on how.</p>
