---
layout: post
title: Is it possible to know what was the first religion of our soul during our first incarnation?
date: 2018-07-06
---

<p>People define religions out of their shared experiences, cultures and traditions. Over time as people become more and more conscious and have more education, their religions become more cohesive and interesting.</p><p>You would be interested, from an anthropological perspective, in the spiritual cults of primitive societies. You would likely not be interested in it as any kind of improvement on the religion you have right now.</p><p>You build on the improvements of the past, you stand on the shoulders of giants who stood on the shoulders of even bigger giants.</p><p>Humans became spiritual as soon as they started talking to each other. They wondered about many things. They guessed at answers to those questions and when the answers worked, they figured they hit upon something great so they passed those answers down to their kids.</p><p>Eventually civilization arose and these spiritual beliefs became super important to organizing and conducting human activity on a grand scale. Without a shared cultural vision, it was hard to get everyone on the same page. Things like the pyramids <i>glorified</i> religious beliefs, they showed people <i>exactly</i> what religion was capable of accomplishing.</p><p>Your first incarnation would have been at the very beginning of your soul’s evolution. As our souls evolve, they generally get more and more spiritually aware. In the beginning, you would be barely aware enough to decide that you <i>want</i> to continue existing after death. So your religion would be barely anything more than a <i>desire</i> to be closer to divinity.</p>
