---
layout: post
title: How do enlightenment and salvation differ?
date: 2018-03-05
---

<p>The concept here is termed <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soteriology" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">soteriology</a>.</p><p>They are as different as the religions they represent.</p><p>Christians believe that they were saved at birth by Jesus, and they continue to be saved throughout their lives by Jesus, and will be saved again when they die and go live in the kingdom of Heaven. The concept of sin encapsulates the act of ‘turning away from God’. Redemption is the process by which individuals realize how they are turning away from God so that they can right themselves.</p><p>In this sense, ‘saved’ really means ‘delivered’. Jesus delivers you from all that is bad in the world. If you do not feel like your life is yet perfect, turn to Jesus and he will make it more perfect. You work together with Jesus to glorify God and create Paradise on Earth. This is what ‘salvation’ means. Walk into any church, and see your life transformed.</p><p>There are different kinds of sin, Christians have come up with ways to deal with all of them, all the techniques concern Jesus.</p><p>Jews have a concept of salvation but it doesn’t play the large role that it does in Christianity so it can’t be reasonably compared to enlightenment.</p><p>Buddhism outlines the concept of <i>dukkha</i>, which encapsulates everything that is bad about the world. Enlightenment is the earned freedom from dukkha. Concentration meditation progressively reveals the illusory nature of self and events and contents. The stages of insight denote the progressive incorporation of these insights into being. The belief is that with enough work, you can be liberated.</p><p>So as you can see, while these two things are similar, follower beliefs make them very different in practice.</p>
