---
layout: post
title: Why is it so hard to read the Bible?
date: 2018-05-21
---

<p>For the same reason it’s hard to read Shakespeare. It wasn’t written for you. Shakespeare intended to entertain the people of 16th century Britain. They had different lives, a different culture, different laws, different family structures, different kinds of entertainment, and a different manner of speech.</p><p>The Bible takes all those barriers and turns them up to eleven, and there’s only so much a masterful translation like the Douay-Rheims Challoner revision or the New King James, let alone silly ones like the NIV, can do to make it more accessible.</p><p>There’s also confusion as to exactly what purpose the Holy Bible is being expected to serve vs. the manner in which it was written. Here today we have well-defined genres of literature, the most visible of which is fantasy / science fiction, romance, and the detective novel.</p><p>The Bible not only uses language, requiring translation, from thousands of years ago, but also literary genres that were common to the period, but are long-dead today. The <i>epistle</i> is a style of personal letter that originated in ancient Egypt and was slowly refined through the ancient Greek and Roman civilizations.</p><p>By the time the Pauline epistles were written, the form became extremely regimented and structured, for cultural reasons that would stump the casual 21st century reader. In order to understand what is being communicated, it’s hugely important to understand the history of that part of the world and have a rough idea of what society was like.</p>
