---
layout: post
title: How do I probe a subconscious for complicated answers, and not a yes or no?
date: 2018-07-12
---

<p>When yes and no isn’t sufficient, you need to get out your power tools. The point of these tools is to remove entire realms of possibility from the answer space. These realms are generally unproductive and will just cause you to spin around in circles if you let yourself continuously be misled by them.</p><p>The first power tool I tend to deploy is, “Is this an urgent matter?” If it’s urgent, then remove the urgency before probing your subconscious. It’s the job of the conscious to deal with pressing concerns. The subconscious works best in the space where there isn’t any immediate negative consequences to being wrong.</p><p>Once the urgency is removed the next domain you want to remove is the moral. The best way I’ve found to do this is to think about possible answers to your question and think about these answers in a moral sense. Which ones feel right, which ones feel wrong. Once you get a sense for the moral space of the question, you can remove consideration from anything that doesn’t sit precisely right with you. If you need a definition for morality, I can’t find a better one than Terry Pratchett’s Granny Weatherwax’s. Treating people as things.</p><p>The next power tool to deploy here is “what do I want to happen?” Create an ideal resolution in your head that you would do if you had all the power in the world to make it happen.</p><p>With this in mind consider the obstacles to your ideal resolution. Set it up so that the obstacles are one after the other, build a <i>path</i> to the ideal resolution. Elon Musk wants to go to Mars, he had to go to the Moon first. To get to the Moon you first have to reach the ISS. To reach the ISS you need to build rockets. To build rockets you need lots of capital. To build capital you need a thriving business. The only difference between you and Musk is that Musk breaks things down into much finer detail while you just give up on the first seemingly insurmountable obstacle. Don’t. Line up the obstacles and conquer them one by one until you reach your goal. But not yet, because you’re not done planning.</p><p>The next step grows out of the last step. While you’re considering obstacles, eventually you’ll run into the one thing you can’t change so easily, yourself. While some things can be fixed, like not knowing calculus, other things can’t, like poor self esteem. This is the true heart of this meditation, it doesn’t even matter whether you accomplish your goal or not if you can achieve an enlightening insight about yourself. You go through the whole exercise so you have a solid map to go on.</p><p>So if you think you can’t get anywhere on your goals because of poor self esteem, you can look critically at the whole plan with all the obstacles and the way they’re overcome and figure out, at which point, exactly, you can’t proceed, and why.</p><p>Then you can zoom out and consider how this is affecting the rest of your life. What else could you do if this one problem just went away?</p><p>Then when you see how important that particular part is, <b>that’s</b> when you ask your subconscious for help. Also called praying.</p><p>I once spent months teaching myself how to have verbal conversations with my subconscious. The only thing it’s good for is to do this same kind of self-inquiry in a somewhat more interesting way.</p>
