---
layout: post
title: Why does everyone&#39;s comments on enlightenment all sound like I&#39;m just reading another book on enlightenment? Does no one have organic ideas&#47;words to express it? Or has it become just another mold to fit&#47;way to be?
date: 2018-10-25
---

<p>I try to bring a unique take on the subject. The main issue I see with enlightenment literature is that it’s typically written using Eastern literary forms. Very little of it uses Western-style dialectic and philosophical forms.</p><p>One of my favorite Eastern mystics when I was younger was Osho. My favorite book by him was the <i>Rajneesh Bible,</i> a number of compiled collections of talks he gave to his followers at his ranch in Oregon. I like this approach because rather than trying to distill his wisdom, he can give his thoughts the room they need to breathe. You get a sense for the person behind it all.</p><p>This is important because it gets lost in the shuffle that enlightened people are still just people. They’re not demigods or perfect or anything. They just have a particular relationship with themselves, truth, and the world around them.</p><p>Their humanity doesn’t make them less remarkable, but it does make enlightenment more ineffable and harder to describe than people would like.</p><p>I can get poetic and cute if I need to be, but I find that the subject matter of enlightenment is better treated with a more ‘workmanlike’ approach. This is stuff I deal with day to day, identification, ego, surrender, our place in the cosmos and what’s beyond. Spirituality, religion, mysticism. These things for me aren’t some far off land of wonder, they’re my everyday existence.</p><p>The problem isn’t that I can’t talk about these things, I can, and I do. But they’re just so incredibly <b>dense</b>. I could spend pages and pages on one particular aspect of ego that caught my attention.</p><p>Whenever I do this though, people’s eyes just glaze over. Writing with concision and clarity and still managing to keep it simple is really really hard, and that’s compounded when you’re operating in the spiritual space, in the identification space.</p><p>It’s so difficult that people wind up reaching for any kind of tool to help cut through the jungle. What makes the jungle so thick is that the words have to do the job of getting the person reading them to understand more about themselves. And there are so many ways for them to be misunderstood.</p><p>So you see the same terms, same treatments, same topics brought up over and over again.</p><p>Personally, I didn’t mind it when I was getting started. There’s filler and chaff in every topic, you just have to get good at sorting through it all. I found <i>The Rajneesh Bible</i> sitting on a shelf in a bookstore. If you take your search with any degree of seriousness you’ll find something that speaks to you too.</p>
