---
layout: post
title: Is it LOGICAL to believe that the biblical miracles really happened?
date: 2018-10-14
---

<p>I’ve been reading about and contemplating the historical milieu at the time of the gospels and I find them at least somewhat plausible. A few hundred years is <b>not</b> a long time for a religion to spread, and in the space of just three hundred years, Christianity went from being a fringe element of it’s parent religion, all the way to the official state religion of the Roman Empire.</p><p>We today think of three hundred years as a really really long time but back then it’s the veritable blink of an eye. <b>Something</b> lit a fire under the butts of the people keen on spreading the new cult of Jesus, something got them to hit upon just the right mixture of pedagogy and humility to where <i>people actually listened to them</i>.</p><p>Acts of the Apostles contains numerous accounts of Jesus appearing to people and convincing them to stop what they’re doing and follow him. I’ve had spiritual visions before, they range all the way from barely coherent enough to get any kind of meaning from at all, all the way to commands spoken directly into my head from God. I find these particular accounts completely believable and the rest of the New Testament apart from the Gospels to be very compelling.</p><p>I’ve heard the argument that if they’d really happened, there’d be actual historical written accounts of them and of Jesus. I find this argument marginally less convincing than the actual gospel accounts. The fact is, paper is still too expensive at this point, government officials too busy and few to be bothered to investigate every little fantastic claim. If they actually happened, I find the fact that people rejected them and Jesus at every turn absolutely believable.</p><p>I find the gospel accounts to be, for sure, embellished, collected secondhand accounts fit into the form of a story narrative. For sure, what actually happened back then might differ quite sharply from the latter accounts.</p><p>But I don’t have a problem with the <i>substance</i> of the claims, that Jesus wielded the power of God and didn’t faff about in showing this and teaching people how it was done and what to do about it. I’ve wielded this power myself and learned the same lessons. Anybody can become a mystic and do it themselves.</p>
