---
layout: post
title: Has there ever been a form of Christianity based solely on the words of Jesus alone (that does not use the letters of Saul or Revelations)?
date: 2018-04-13
---

<p>You can’t build a religion on just the New Testament, much less just the words that Jesus Himself spoke in the book. There’s not enough there. Four of the books all told the same story from different authors.</p><p>Well, you <i>could</i>. It just wouldn’t be a very good idea. It would be like trying to turn Star Wars into a religion. Or Scientology. There’s not enough source material there to create a coherent narrative, so defining the religion instead has to rest on theology.</p><p>And that sucks. For over a thousand years the Christian community has been divided over the question of whether the Holy Spirit emanates from the Son as well as the Father. Where scripture fails to provide answers, humans sit around and argue and fight wars over it.</p><p>You need to set a religion into a broader narrative so that you can create the sense of history and purpose that drives believers. Jesus’ words are set in the broader narrative of God’s plan for all humans on Earth, starting with Adam and ending with the end of Earthly life for humanity.</p><p>Because to believe is to ask questions. When you want to know, why did God smite Uzzah for mishandling the Ark of the Covenant, you need to look back on all the other reasons God smites people and what makes the Ark special. Everything fits into a giant puzzle, and the whole of the picture of that puzzle makes when it’s assembled is <i>what Christianity is</i>.</p><p>The puzzle has to have enough pieces for the picture it makes to have any clarity at all.</p>
