---
layout: post
title: There is a girl I like so much I will wait eternity for her or do anything to be with her in my life. Why do I feel this way?
date: 2018-06-02
---

<p>The combination of loneliness and the sex drive really does a number on the young mind’s sense of what’s appropriate.</p><p>The mind can’t be satisfied with just knowing what it <i>should</i> do, it also needs to understand <i>why</i> it should do it. This kind of thing is precisely how the mind learns the why.</p><p>Let’s say you were blind and you were on hilly terrain. You want to figure out how to get to the top of the highest hill. But you can’t just look around to see which is the highest, you’re blind. But you can feel the ground you’re standing on and walk in any direction depending on whether you’re moving up or down.</p><p>The hill you get to the top of may not be the highest. But it’s still better than where you’re at.</p><p>This is how your mind is operating. It doesn’t know how to see the highest hill. It doesn’t really know anything about hilly terrain. It’s just putting one foot in front of the other so that it can get higher.</p><p>Worse, your mind doesn’t really know whether you’re going up or down. It’s just following a direction that it feels good to walk in. When you get to the end, it might not even be a hill, but rather a valley.</p><p>The nice thing about being in a valley is, every direction you move in is up.</p><p>The other nice thing about it is, you’re not an addict. When an addict gets to the bottom of a valley, they don’t start moving up, they start digging down with their hands and feet, because moving in the direction that doesn’t even feel good to them anymore is all they know how to do, so they just keep going any way they can. They have to find <i>rock</i> bottom, when they can’t dig down anymore, before they’re alerted to the idea that, wow, you don’t have to move down all the time!</p><p>But you’re not an addict, so if you find yourself at the bottom of a valley instead of the top of a hill, you can start to pick the up direction instead of the down direction.</p>
