---
layout: post
title: Who is your inner demon?
date: 2018-11-09
---

<p>I haven’t given her a name yet, but she’s the absolute queen bitch of the whole demon hive. When she looks at you, you don’t know whether she wants to flay the skin off your sad sack of flesh or mount and ride you to the best orgasm of your next 5000 lives. Probably both at the same time.</p><p>Her style is timeless, regal, but she’s not afraid to dress down in a t-shirt and jeans when she’s just hanging around. She can choose what shape she takes, but normally she picks porn-star curves, she could care less about modern inclusive standards of female beauty. You get intimidated just looking at her, she can sear your masculinity away with a furrow of her brow.</p><p>Calling her a succubus would demean her. She makes those little hoes do her gardening. She’s fought in countless wars and enslaved thousands of angels, corrupting them into demons and stripping every last shred of their dignity away. She doesn’t even need to do it herself anymore either, her warlords are more than happy to take charge of that particular little chore.</p><p>What most people don’t realize is that demons are two dimensional beings. This is why they hang around us 3 dimensional schlubs. They fight, fuck, but don’t take much time to think about the consequences behind any of it. Their intellect just isn’t set up for it. They see what they want, they get it, and they enjoy it while they can. What we offer them is potential beyond that. To play in an even bigger world than they can find on their own.</p><p>Your inner demon might tell you to keep eating more cookies, mine wonders why I haven’t yet slaughtered all these foolish idiots who obviously can’t pull their own weight in this world. She’s done all that, and it’s every bit as awesome as you would think.</p><p>I want to learn sculpture so I can bring her into the world physically. I haven’t yet seen a sculpture of a female demon that could do her justice, so I will need to make it myself.</p>
