---
layout: post
title: Is believing in Jesus Christ better than atheism? Most cases atheists are reclusive and arrogant, where Christians are always happier. Is there a reason for this?
date: 2018-07-18
---

<p>Any kind of religious belief is better than atheism. The reason is, human minds simply can’t handle anything other than certainty in approach. If they don’t build certainty in faith, they’ll build certainty in absence of it, never really understanding the process of faith that they’re participating in.</p><p>Believing in silly things is much much better than believing in extremely serious things. And you have to believe in something. If you believe in something serious and not-so-easily falsified then you’ll be extremely tempted to take them super-seriously.</p><p>Not that believing in silly things makes you 100% immune from the slippery slope of ugly dogmatic forcefulness. But Christianity gets a lot of value out of the inherent realization that the things it believes in aren’t historically verified and are indeed somewhat silly. Turning water into wine? Casting pigs into the sea to drown? Religion has always been the domain of the silly. And the silly is a fantastic thing to build ritual and belief from.</p><p>The Bible speaks of giant sea monsters that guard the edges of the world. It speaks of a solid firmament that separates Heaven from Hell. If you take all this stuff literally then I got beachfront property in Arizona to sell you.</p><p>Let me give you your new Friday night plans. If you had plans before, sorry, you have new plans tonight. Go ahead and cancel what you thought you were going to do.</p><p>What you’re going to do is gather up a group of your closest friends and perform a ritual to Elstendra, the patron goddess of toast. This particular ritual will celebrate the glory of toast that’s only been toasted on one side. You’ll invite Merstandio, the god of cherry-flavored liquor, along for the ride, and serve copious amounts of mulled Luxardo along with single-toasted bread chips to dip it into to all your guests.</p><p>The purpose of your gathering will be to raise energy for the hope that cherry toast will become the breakfast staple of choice for all of mankind. Because it would be awesome.</p><p>There’s just something about myth and legend that gets people to want to believe in it and glorify it. Nobody believes the Force is real, but that doesn’t stop people from starting Jedi temples.</p><p>Silly and stupid is what religion is. Don’t take it literally. Take it easy. You’re not stupid because you think ritual is fun.</p>
