---
layout: post
title: Where in the computer world can we put &quot;web development&quot;? Is it in the software engineering world?
date: 2018-04-11
---

<p>It’s a subfield of application development.</p><p>The first major division in “computers” is hardware vs. software. Web dev is of course software.</p><p>Software can be generally divided up into layers of a stack. At the bottom is something like processor bytecode and at the top would be using end user software as an actual user.</p><p>Generally speaking, if you’re using someone else’s code, you’re operating at a higher level than they are. If you’re building something for someone else to use, then you’re at a lower level.</p><p>Application development is towards the high levels of that stack. Immediately below you is framework development and immediately above you is administering application software.</p><p>In general, moving to lower levels of the stack makes you more specialized. Someone using accounting software that you build could more easily learn how to use different software than it would take for you to make completely new software.</p><p>So the application development field can be divided into two basic categories, web and everything else. Everything else includes games, databases, utilities, mobile apps, basically anything that targets the operating system rather than the web as its interface. Before the web changed everything, everything was “other.” The web was that revolutionary.</p><p>Web development itself, again, is a stack which can be divided into two broad categories, back and front-end. Full-stack web developers operate across the whole stack. All the way at the top are UX designers, or perhaps technical management, depending on how you want to slice the categories.</p><p>Note that a full stack web developer generally won’t get involved with design or management, so it’s arguable as to whether you want to include those competencies, but since they all work as integral parts of a team, you don’t really want to leave them out either.</p>
