---
layout: post
title: What would you do with eternal life?
date: 2018-08-22
---

<p>Same thing I’m doing now. Having fun when I can, learning when I can’t.</p><p>If the afterlife is how I envision it, then the first thing I’ll probably end up doing is recreating as much of the existing world as possible. Just like the Matrix, only I can jack in and out at will. I’ll have different realms where I can play with ‘regressions’ like, say, realms where arcane D&amp;D style magic is possible. But mostly as a fun escape from my primary goal, which is to simply continue my current inquiry into various meta-questions about existence.</p><p>Those questions are best explored in a ‘hard’ reality like this one. A hard reality is one with a great deal of separation from God. Realms in which magic is possible, where the mind has much greater control over environment, are ‘soft’ realities.</p><p>In a hard reality, it’s easy to separate things that are purely mental, and things that operate purely by rules, deterministically. The hardest reality you can think of is a computer program, in which the full state of the system is known and all of the rules are also known.</p><p>What’s interesting about deterministic computer programs is they can demonstrate an interesting property called ‘emergence’. Managing emergent behaviors to a fine enough degree can prove virtually impossible, from finding gliders in Conway’s Game of Life to solving the halting problem.</p><p>A few orders of magnitude up on the determinism scale is our physical reality, which operates according to rules we can determine, but still manages to surprise us regardless.</p><p>Even further up is the spirit realm, which operates according to conscious will. Each of these levels involves adding dimensions onto inputs and outputs. Conway’s Game of Life is the application of an exceedingly simple algorithm onto a 2D space. Physical space is a more complicated algorithm that operates in 3D space. Our minds are self-aware, so that adds yet another dimension.</p><p>Our realities, our bodies, are a ‘projection’ of the 4D spiritual world onto 3D space. The projection is necessary because our consciousness just can’t handle 4D existence directly. I’m always discovering more and more ‘touch points’ where 4D spiritual / mental reality intersects with 3D existence. Exploring these touch points is largely what I find myself doing with my free time, and I don’t see myself stopping anytime soon.</p>
