---
layout: post
title: Why do so many Trinity believers quote 1 John 5:7 in the KJV, when it is so widely known that these words are not in the original Greek texts, but were later additions?
date: 2018-05-01
---

<p>Religion evolves over time. If you have a problem with that, then you should definitely have a problem with the way in which the Council of Nicaea was conducted. Convened by Emperor Constantine in the year 325, supposedly there was debate and a vote, but in reality the emperor was dangling a carrot over the heads of Christians while not so sneakily hiding a stick behind his back.</p><p>Basically, Christianity was to become the official creed of the Roman empire. But he extracted concessions to ensure that Christians were Roman first, and Christian second. Basically he was offering a variation on the deal that conquering emperors had always offered local populations. Convert or be forcibly converted. The Romans had already destroyed the second Holy Temple of Jerusalem in the conquest.</p><p>It is greatly arguable as to the extent of Constantine’s supposed conversion, but at any rate his acceptance of Christianity solved a lot of problems for the Romans. Jews were continuously in revolt against Rome, and dealing with them took a lot of resources. So Constantine decided to get on top of this new Christian business, making it the new cult of Rome.</p><p>He gave lots of land and coin to the new church, it’s arguable that without this patronage, Christianity would have eventually fizzled out, though it would have taken awhile. But in return Rome got a state-friendly religion that people actually believed in.</p><p>Did Constantine actually convert to Christianity? Most scholars say probably not. But he exercised an enormous amount of influence on the faith, it’s almost certain that Jesus’ original teachings were modified somewhat by Rome, probably mostly to tone down the revolutionary ideas that were flying around Judea at the time.</p><p>Do Christians know this? <i>Of course they do.</i> If they didn’t know it, we wouldn’t know it, because Christians are ever curious about their faith.</p><p>Christianity allows itself freedom to evolve, and that’s what makes it, in my opinion, the best religion.</p>
