---
layout: post
title: Why do I still not feel particularly attached to my therapist after five months of weekly therapy? She’s nice and all, but I feel confused more often than not. Am I just resistant or is this a symptom of a poor “fit”?
date: 2018-03-04
---

<p>I don’t have a whole lot of experience with therapy, but I have been seeing one for a few years. When I wanted to go a little deeper and had some extra cash to throw around, she recommended a psychiatric consult, (he wound up prescribing Wellbutrin, which I never filled) and a different psychologist who could try a more analytic approach.</p><p>So I’ve been around the block a bit. The other psychologist, after seeing my current one for over a year, I just knew wouldn’t be a good fit. The psychiatrist also wasn’t all that helpful.</p><p>What I can say is that there are two primary aspects to therapy in my experience. You have your own personal connection with the practitioner, and you have the effort you’re putting into it. If both aspects aren’t there, then you won’t get very far.</p><p>What I would suggest is that you talk to your practitioner and let them know that you feel like you’re not getting a lot out of the sessions and to suggest some new directions that therapy could go in. But in the past whenever I’ve done this my therapist just turns it around on me and asks me what I want to dive into. So that might not work well for you.</p><p>So another way to go about this is to do some journaling. You’re going to want to focus on things that make you feel strongly, and think on paper about why you think those things make you feel that way. You can bring the journals in to therapy and go over them in session.</p><p>Finally you could try setting a goal that you could use her help accomplishing and intersects with the reason why you’re seeking therapy in the first place. Then when you hit setbacks or success, those things make excellent things to go over in session.</p><p>Give it a solid month or two of increased effort before you conclude that you just don’t have a good relationship with your practitioner and need a new one.</p>
