---
layout: post
title: What&#39;s the point of Catholic confession? If God sees everything, He should also see that I repent. In that case, why should I go and tell my sins to a stranger (priest)?
date: 2018-04-18
---

<p>I like bringing in quotes from other media to illustrate my point. Here’s something from <i>Hellsing Ultimate: Abridged</i> that does this really well.</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/10ChkjGnSMQ?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="10ChkjGnSMQ" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/10ChkjGnSMQ/0.jpg');"></div><p>Alucard meets God, and Alucard is quite visibly annoyed at God. God sees through Alucard’s frustrations and tries to coax a catharsis out of him. “What is the source of your frustration.” Alucard refuses to give him the satisfaction. “Oh fuck you, you already know.” God tries again to get Alucard to actually say it, before giving up.</p><p>Why does God do this? The answer’s simple, he’s trying to coax a cathartic response out of Alucard. If Alucard can actually confront his issues, rather than push them onto God, then Alucard can actually recognize his part in creating the person he became. Alucard can then recognize that he doesn’t have to hold on to all this and allow himself to be lightened of his burden, giving it up to God.</p><p>In other words, God’s forgiveness isn’t for Him, it’s for you. This is why it’s so important that you accept it. It doesn’t really work otherwise. This is the whole point that the Holy Bible, from the Old Testament on through the New, all the way to Revelation, drives home.</p><p>If you want a much clearer story that focuses on this particular aspect of repentance and forgiveness, <i>A Christmas Carol</i> by Charles Dickens is perfect. I love the 2009 animated version. Very dark, very watchable. Tears fell down my face when Ebenezer finally realizes what happened to his life.</p>
