---
layout: post
title: How can I heal myself spiritually?
date: 2018-05-31
---

<p>You need a little Jesus in your life.</p><p>Not literally, figuratively, though if you want to invite Jesus into your life, by all means go right ahead. Christians have defined the very ground upon which we tread. When they say, through Jesus, all things are possible, they’re right in a very, very important sense.</p><p>That the mechanisms of redemption and absolution are exactly what “spiritual healing” means. You don’t have to go through Jesus to obtain them, but Christians made important advancements to the entire “state of the art” regarding inner pain and how to alleviate it.</p><p>What they discovered is that <b>there is nothing more to salvation than just asking for it</b><b><i>.</i></b> It’s the “getting to the asking part” that’s the real trouble. What we call the placebo effect is really the mind just giving itself permission to heal itself. All ‘spiritual’ forms of healing are just one way or another for the mind to let the body know, okay, you can let this go if you want. From acupuncture to reiki to alchemy to the Law of Attraction.</p><p>If ‘just asking for it’ doesn’t work, then the simple tools didn’t work, so you need to break out the power tools. For Christians this is Jesus, they just ask Jesus for help. And if their mind is open, Jesus will show them a way. They’ll find just the right physical therapist, ask the doctor just the right question. Jesus is the solution to all their problems, if Jesus didn’t solve your problem just by making it go away, well he’ll work with you on another solution.</p><p>If you don’t believe in Jesus, then you can try other things. Personally, I do a ton of mysticism and it’s never steered me wrong. I don’t talk to Jesus because I didn’t build that relationship up when I was a kid and there doesn’t seem to be much use for me in building it up now. But it’s not like I’ve <i>never</i> talked to Jesus before. I have.</p><p>I just meditate on what I want, then take whatever I feel as input into the situation. I’ve come to trust in those feelings because I’ve done it for years.</p><p>For <b>me</b> the concept of spiritual healing is somewhat immaterial. This is because it’s a near and dear part of my life and there’s nothing that’s <i>not</i> spiritual in it. To you there might be a concept of physical healing vs. spiritual healing, for me it’s like distinguishing aquamarine from turquoise. Useful if you’re designing a kitchen, not so much if you’re coloring with your kids.</p><p>Just ask. If asking doesn’t work, start paying better attention to what’s going on around you. If that doesn’t work, try a little meditation. If that doesn’t work, try a lot of meditation. You’ll get it eventually. The nice thing about it is that once you’ve decided that you’re going to heal this thing, it becomes less about the suffering and more about the journey towards healing. That’s nice.</p>
