---
layout: post
title: Why can science challenge religion but not Buddhism?
date: 2018-04-08
---

<p>Of course it can challenge Buddhism. None of the purported benefits of enlightenment have ever been scientifically verified. It’s just as much hokey voodoo as anything else.</p><p>Buddhism is religion, it’s just that a materialistically-minded legion of Westerners want desperately for Buddhism to be their religion that’s not actually religion. Wanting something to be true doesn’t actually make it true. Buddhism is hokey Iron-age mystic crap and you should actually go read some of the old legends before you get all high and mighty on me.</p><p>Have you been to a Buddhist church? I have. Have you seen Buddhist idols, Buddhist dogmas? I have. Have you looked really carefully and clearly at those dogmas and realized they’re not all that different from all the other religions? I have.</p><p>Real religion, including Buddhism, is fine dealing in half-truths and expecting you to sort out the good from the bad. They will fill your head with visions of 42 virgins and ultimate enlightenment and urge you to dive in headfirst into a 3 foot deep pool. When you bang your head on the bottom then it’s your fault for believing that silly kids stuff.</p><p>Then 30 years later you’ll find yourself proffering the same old legends to your kids. Why? Because belief is more fun than surly cantankerousness. I hold on to my beliefs even though I know that it’s half-way in my head because when you get right down to it, reading deeply into stories and myths and legends is fun.</p><p>Wouldn’t you love to be one of the guys making <i>Star Wars</i> movies? Modern myth-making at its finest. Hitting your head is the price for entry.</p>
