---
layout: post
title: Do you think it is really possible to combine reason and religion, or is faith alone enough to know God? Explain.
date: 2018-09-27
---

<p>It’s absolutely possible, but you have to understand the difference between reason and skepticism first. Skepticism leads to the silly belief that God is the same kind of thing as Santa Clause or unicorns, while reason looks carefully at the history behind the religion and the people who came up with it and how it evolved over time.</p><p>Sure, there are plenty of believers that see the same divide as skeptics, that belief and reason are incompatible, and so never seek to apply reason to their faith. And believers that aren’t sophisticated enough to do more than they were taught as children.</p><p>Take the Bible for instance. Scripture, as a work of literature, is extremely hard for the Western mind to pick up and read. Why is this? Well, think about it. It was written 2–3 thousand years ago, using 2–3 thousand year old literary genres, to help people 2–3 thousand years ago to get meaning out of their lives. There’s nothing wrong with acknowledging this and performing <i>literary</i> analyses of the Bible to figure out what it was trying to say. In fact there’s an entire scholastic field devoted to this kind of work.</p><p>Reason makes a good-faith attempt to understand these things. Skepticism won’t accept any answer because the mindset of the questioner is such that they aren’t really interested in any answer that doesn’t make them feel smarter than all the rubes.</p><p>To illustrate the difference, one of my favorite, and most prolific, writers in this space, <a href="/profile/Dick-Harfield">Dick Harfield</a>, has as his tagline, “Facts Matter.” While I greatly appreciate his scholarship, his answers and inquiry usually only go one direction, to attempt to use historical fact to discredit the mystical truth of the religion.</p><p>But you can’t use historical truth to attack mystical understandings. When it comes to the great mystery, fact very specifically <i>doesn’t</i> matter. It’s the stories’ internal consistency that points towards mystical truth. The allegory. Adam and Eve was <i>just a story,</i> it makes zero attempt at even trying to be historically true, unlike the gospels. The point being made is allegorical, that humanity simply doesn’t deserve paradise. Given the first chance, we throw God’s gifts away.</p><p>The skeptic paints this great line over the top of creation and says, “these things must not have any truth whatsoever because they sound stupid. But it’s reasonable to understand that such a line must necessarily come from one’s own mind, and one’s own mind cannot form the basis of what the world really is. The only way to ascertain truth is to continually widen one’s perspective using all the available kinds of reasonable analysis until a reconciliation is possible.</p><p>This takes decades of focused study. But there’s a shortcut. Simply take a critical look at the zeitgeist, and make a personal gut decision about what direction to go. When I was fifteen, I thought atheism was the bee’s knees. By nineteen, having years of participation on Internet forums under my belt, I wasn’t so sure anymore, and the main reason I was skeptical of atheism was because I’d read enough stories, not even Biblical stories, of men getting led astray by their own pride. The more I looked at it, the more atheism looked <i>exactly</i> like that kind of foolish pride. My spiritual journey is detailed in my <a href="https://spiritual-musings.quora.com/How-I-got-into-spirituality">blog</a>.</p><p>You absolutely can meld science and faith. You simply have to realize that your own ego cannot be the driver. Ego isn’t reason.</p>
