---
layout: post
title: How am I to feel when my girlfriend had a male friend spend the night at her house? She said they are not having sex.
date: 2018-08-22
---

<p>Even if they’re not having sex, which I wouldn’t be so quick to believe her about, there’s plenty of reasons to not be okay with it.</p><p>You can’t tell your girlfriend what she can and can’t do, but you can make “no male sleepovers” a condition for a continued relationship. She can either respect your wishes or not, if she’s not respecting your wishes, then that all by itself is grounds for ending the relationship.</p><p>I’m sorry to say this but relationships are hard, nobody wants to feel constricted in what they can and can’t do. But not being constricted means that you’re much more likely to act in ways that are hurtful to your partner. Even having platonic male friend sleepovers indicates to me that she’s not really serious about her relationship with you. There’s often no real solution to these issues other than a breakup, in many cases, no amount of communication will get you guys on the same page.</p><p>You need to decide whether this is a make-or-break issue for you. It doesn’t sound like you trust her, which when combined with this sort of behavior means you’re going to get hurt eventually, it’s just a matter of when. Do you really want to find out months after they started having sex during these sleepovers and she’s decided she really isn’t into you anymore?</p><p>If I were you I’d let her go, if she really wants to keep you around, she’ll earn her way back into your life.</p>
