---
layout: post
title: Do you believe that objectivity exists?
date: 2018-06-21
---

<p>This is, primarily, a semantic question, one in which you have to decide what the terms used mean, before you can answer appropriately. It has a philosophical component, but you have to get through the semantics before you can start to deal with that aspect. And once you do, you already have the answer.</p><p>Objectivity, on the surface, means something that exists for everyone and not just one person. This is a trivial question to answer, of course it does, that describes the physical world. That the question has a trivial answer means that what’s actually being asked means we need to dig further.</p><p>The counterpart to objectivity is <i>subjectivity</i>, which are things that can exist only for one person. A person’s beliefs, for instance, exist only to them. What the question really wants is a treatment of the world of belief, whether objectivity exists in that realm just as it does with the physical world.</p><p>Since this is a semantic discussion, we should also take care to define <i>exist</i> as well. When things exist, that means they can be related to each other. Imagine putting two things into a world and making them interact. If they can’t interact, that means they don’t exist relative to each other.</p><p>For example, the French monarchy no longer exists <i>physically</i>, as there’s no person filling the role of the French monarch. But it existed back in the 1700s, if you lived back then then you could go and meet a French king. So the <i>concept</i> of the French monarchy exists, but the <i>actual</i> French monarchy stopped existing when Germany overran France in World War 2. This, again, points to the need for a deeper reading of the question than whether objectivity exists.</p><p>That little detour out of the way, lets return to objectivity and subjectivity. If a thing is subjective, that means a person can decide if they exist or not. If a thing is objective, that means a person can’t decide whether it exists or not.</p><p>The first thing that pops to mind here is Charles Manson. If Charles Manson decided to identify as ‘not a murderer’, then does that make Charles Manson’s identity as a murderer objective, or subjective? Most people would state that Charles Manson is a murderer whether he wants to admit it to himself or not. That makes his status an <i>objective</i> thing.</p><p>“But wait!” I can hear you exclaiming. “What if some people believed Manson’s rationale? Surely that means that Manson’s status as a murderer is a subjective thing!”</p><p>This is where the debate stops being semantic and starts being philosophical. It’s no longer about what words mean, but rather about fundamentals. Does the existence of people that believe that Manson isn’t a murderer mean that Manson’s status as a murderer is subjective?</p><p>“Hold on, back up the truck, Chuck! We haven’t defined what it means to be a murderer yet! This is still a semantic discussion!” Sure. Ok. Let’s define murder. Then let’s examine the events of Manson’s life to see if they fit the definition of murder.</p><p>And there you have it, right there, philosophical proof that objectivity exists. We can <i>define</i> something and then <i>determine</i> whether something fits the definition. Things might come to different conclusions depending on how we choose to define the words, but that doesn’t mean that we can’t come to a determination for whether Manson is a murderer no matter how we choose to define murder!</p><p>“But wait Vincent! What if someone didn’t want to believe in the definition?” To which I say, If nobody could agree on the definition of <i>anything,</i> then communication would be completely impossible. And if we can come to a shared definition of <i>anything</i> then that means we can come to a shared definition of <i>everything</i>. If you and I sat here long enough, we could come to a determination of what it means to murder. Then we can decide, <i>according to the actual events that happened</i> whether Manson fit the definition.</p><p>Therefore some words have to have ‘universal’ definitions that everyone can agree on. If someone doesn’t want to believe in the objectivity of something, well they can come to a shared understanding of the semantics, then make the objective determination then.</p><p>We can keep diving deeper, for example it seems weird that objectivity should rest on the ability of humans to agree on definitions, but that gets a lot more meta, and is really outside of the scope of this answer.</p>
