---
layout: post
title: What is the logic to spirituality? (On your self description you wrote that you have found that there is a logic to spirituality.) Can you recommend a contemporary teacher who have managed to discover it?
date: 2018-01-15
---

<p>Wow, my first targeted A2A. I’m honored.</p><p>Spiritual logic as I see it relies on a lightweight dogma to replace all other dogmas. You can’t hold tightly onto imparted beliefs if you want to really be able to work with it. Dogma is the foundation of belief. An example from Christianity is the belief in the resurrection and divinity of Jesus.</p><p>Your personal logic is going to flow from this dogma. But you can’t understand <i>all</i> religions from the same standpoint if you believe in a One True Religion. But you can’t just have no dogma. No dogma is essentially materialism, and materialism is stupid, you can’t understand religion at all if you’re a materialist.</p><p>So the foundational dogma undergirding spiritual logic is essentially, all spirituality and beliefs speak towards the same basic truth. Belief is 100% additive, you can believe whatever you want and I can believe whatever I want, and there can never be any contention between systems. When conflicting beliefs spring up, the conflict points towards an even higher road where both beliefs are simultaneously true.</p><p>So an example I have of this is reconciling the Western-style afterlife with Eastern-style reincarnation. Which is true? Well, meditating on this can prove quite fruitful. One interesting idea you might come up with is that both afterlife and reincarnation assume that your Earthly birth here is a kind of absolute beginning to the identity of you. What if that identity didn’t start at birth?</p><p>So you have three ideas, and now you have to reconcile all of them. And all the other possible ideas. It’s impossible to actually consider all the possibilities for how things might be, the combinations are infinite. So instead you look for “choke points.” One of the choke points I came up with is the fact that for any kind of existence to be possible, you need more than one entity, so that they can interact with each other. This is a sort of absolute logic that would hold regardless of any other belief.</p><p>This idea, that things can be absolutely true, that they can hold no matter which belief system you consider them in, forms the bedrock for spiritual logic. Fundamentally, a consciousness is just an agency, and an agency is just something that wants something. You can start to examine ideas like heaven through these lenses. What do you do in heaven? It doesn’t make sense for agency to exist without wanting things. We even imagine God to want things.</p><p>Finally, spiritual logic is intended to reflect back onto the temporal. You take lessons you learn “up there” and relate them back to your regular mundane life. You don’t enter heaven upon death, you create heaven in your waking life long before it. If you think logically about spirituality long enough, connections back to things like your job and romantic life just fall into place.</p><p>You can take any spiritual idea, and apply it to any other spiritual idea. Against the bedrock of God being all things, all possibility, then you can connect any idea to any other. Consciousness, for instance, is a creative field on which you can paint anything. Is it big enough to house an entire universe? Oh wow, that sounds a lot like how we might be to God. You can keep adding beliefs and ideas and relating new beliefs to old beliefs and eventually you’ll have a map on which you can consider pretty much anything quickly.</p><p>I’m not aware of any similarly-minded contemporary teachers that think in quite this way. It seems to be just on the tip of the zeitgeist. I imagine we’ll see dozens of them in our time all saying the same thing.</p>
