---
layout: post
title: At a high level of interconnectedness, does all or almost all subconscious thought become conscious?
date: 2018-08-14
---

<p>In my experience, no. As your being gets more and more interconnected with those around you, rather than it being your conscious that manages all of that interconnection, it’s the subconscious that creates a buffer. The reason this is is because that’s the way the brain was designed.</p><p>It does us absolutely no good to be conscious of literally everything. Consciousness is a <i>sequential</i> decision-making facility, while the subconscious is a <i>parallel</i> one that also does the duty of deciding what rates conscious awareness.</p><p>If you’re conscious of everything, then that’s going to really bog down that sequential process. I think this is what’s actually happening to people with autism. The brain just doesn’t know what to present so it presents everything, and the person can’t cope.</p><p>No, as you get more and more conscious, you do get somewhat more information presented to your conscious awareness, and you do gain the ability to process more. But the information that’s presented is more ‘compressed’. You can’t make <i>logical</i> sense of everything that’s presented to you, because the extra info doesn’t necessarily use your linguistic center so it’s not formed into words.</p><p>This may seem to raise the interesting question of whether atheists are simply less ‘well-developed’ than theists because theists are going to be more willing to see sub-linguistic information presented by the subconscious as meaningful.</p><p>My answer to this is that I feel like neither most theists nor most atheists are aware enough to really understand how their own brains work, I’ve run into plenty of atheists who I’d consider to be enlightened even though enlightenment could never never fit with their beliefs. How their brains work is independent to how they think their brains work.</p><p>For an example of this right here on Quora, look no farther than <a href="/profile/Franklin-Veaux">Franklin Veaux</a>. He is perhaps the most self-aware, wise, intensely-conscious person I’ve ever come across who is also a materialist rationalist. Materialist rationalists are in general more intelligent than theists, but Franklin is actually more wise as well. I’ve never seen anything like it, and Franklin has been my go-to, the first person I reach for when I need to consider the boundary between intelligence and wisdom, for a long long time.</p><p>But if you don’t meditate, if you don’t plumb that boundary between your conscious and subconscious through direct experience, then you won’t be able to have any kind of intuitive grasp over your own cognition, and so you’ll be prone to over-rely on the scientific. The scientific absolutely deeply informs my sense of the possible, but my own meditation is far more powerful than any scientific inquiry, so I will always place meditative exploration above neuroscience.</p><p>But I’m getting too far off topic so I’ll just say that as you get more meta, science offers fewer answers. You need to be able to operate in a regime in which science can’t really offer much at all if you want to plumb to the deepest depths of human ability.</p><p>Also I do want to give an example of a group of theists who I consider to have a body of knowledge that ultimately derives from mystic exploration that is better than any scientific paradigm, and that’s the Swedenborg Foundation. Here’s a good intro to Swedenborg the man:</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/HEa0e8AcS78?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="HEa0e8AcS78" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/HEa0e8AcS78/0.jpg');"></div><p>Today, the Swedenborg foundation exists to take Swedenborg’s body of work and make it relevant to modern society.</p><p>I appear to have found a bug in Quora! I can’t get rid of the ad nauseum stuff underneath this paragraph you see here. I can see and edit it out if I use other editors like the mobile one.</p><p><i>ad nauseumaadad nauseum</i></p>
