---
layout: post
title: Could enlightenment be realizing you are an AI or whatever the essence of your being is?
date: 2018-08-02
---

<p>Enlightenment puts you past all that. The “essence of your being” is an identity. Enlightenment comes from the realization that this is just an illusion just like everything else.</p><p>So let’s break this down. How in the world would you realize what you actually are, whether actual human, AI, alien, the list goes on. Where is this information <i>coming from?</i> How can you verify that it’s legit and just more noise?</p><p>You can’t. There’s no possible way to do that with your brain. Even if you had a bigger brain, the mystery of what you are will continue to proceed apace.</p><p>Enlightenment, along with many other things, is the acceptance of this fact and working that into the deep corners of your being. One way to see this is <i>nonduality</i>. Duality has you existing as a separate identity apart from the rest of the world. Nonduality erases that identity. AI and the whole procession of things that humans dream up to give meaning to their lives are just <i>maya</i>, illusions that weave in and out of existence.</p><p>It’s easy to see that the world is stupid and dumb and base. What’s hard is to look inside and realize that you’re just a reflection of all that and there’s no <i>there</i> there.</p><p>There’s a spiritual process that you go through that assaults your very sense of self. It puts you through hell, by the time you’re done with all that the very idea that you could be an AI or whatever, <i>who cares</i>. You’re existing on another level.</p>
