---
layout: post
title: Is there any reason to believe that these Christian religions manipulated the truth which led them to contradict the purpose and intention of the Holy Scriptures resulting to the people not to recognize the truth that could have revealed God?
date: 2018-05-08
---

<p>Interesting question that gets at the relationships religions have with their scripture.</p><p>The first answer I want to give is, yes, of course religions manipulate the truth. That’s the whole point of a religion, to discover, codify, and transfer truth. The way it usually works is that some smart person will demonstrate and teach truth to anyone who will listen, then hundreds of years later other smart people will collect the folk tales and put them into a body of writing that we call scripture.</p><p>All truth has to come from people. Even if God spoke directly to people, he doesn’t speak everything to everybody all at the same time. So at some point the truths communicated by God have to stop being <i>living</i> truth. This is where scripture comes into play. Scripture is what you read because you don’t have Jesus right there to tell you what’s true. If you did, you’d just listen to him.</p><p>Mystics are people who try to communicate with God directly. Mystics become their own kinds of living truth but usually mystic truths don’t make it into scripture because mystic truth is really really hard to codify and articulate into written format. But sometimes people get super-serious about one mystic’s teachings and so they go to all that trouble.</p><p>The process by which living truth becomes written truth is fascinating. Stories have to be selected and pruned and rewritten for the purpose of driving deep narrative lessons. I used to think the reason why there were four gospels in the New Testament telling the same story is because Jesus was such an amazing figure that he needed four accounts to do him justice. Later I find that they’re all pretty much retellings from the same source material, they didn’t bother finishing the task of writing the New Testament before sticking a fork in it and calling it done.</p><p>Dozens, perhaps hundreds of people witnessed Jesus’ ministry. Many of them had their stories to tell. How do we decide what the ‘right’ way to tell Jesus’ story is? It’s not an easy task. You certainly can’t do it while Jesus is alive and you have to wait awhile after he’s gone before you can really make sense of what happened. Then you have to fit the new story in with all the old stories.</p><p>So who makes scripture? Well, religious people do. It’s part and parcel of the process of growing a system of belief. The New Testament was written by followers of Jesus who wanted a record of his words and actions and the stories surrounding him. Written truth has to stay as close to the living truth as possible.</p><p>But written truth cannot be the <i>only</i> truth. The Bible leaves a <b>lot</b> unsaid. And people keep asking questions. It’s a good problem to have when lots of people are arguing over the truth you’re trying to get them to believe in. But it’s a problem you have to solve nonetheless.</p><p>The way this is traditionally handled is through what’s called an <i>ecumenical council</i>. Ecumenical is a fancy word for ‘a whole bunch of people with different beliefs about the same thing’. You get them together into a big room and hammer out the answers to the questions that keep coming up. The first Christian ecumenical council was convened by a Roman emperor and he had to approve all the decisions. This was the price Christianity had to pay for legitimacy. This council established the Christian doctrine of the Trinity.</p><p>Ecumenical councils allow a church to arise. They generally have to rest on scripture, it’s entirely too hard to usefully argue over living truth. The church that arises then makes the claim that it’s the right church to follow as the new living truth. Sometimes this claim feels legitimate, sometimes it feels absurdly laughable. The Christian Church created the concept of infallibility to nurture this claim, and it can weave some truly tortuous webs.</p><p>I hope this helps clarify any confusion you might have.</p>
