---
layout: post
title: In the theist-atheist discussion, how do you personally understand the difference and&#47;or value of these perspectives: “absence of evidence isn’t evidence of absence” and “extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence”?
date: 2018-11-01
---

<p>I personally see one of these claims as stretches of the ability of reason to comprehend things it just can’t understand, and the other as self-evident. Let’s take them in turn.</p><p>Absence of evidence isn’t evidence of absence would appear to be the more palatable of logical assertions to the believer. But this believer is convinced that absence of evidence is in fact evidence of absence. It’s just that there’s plenty of evidence for spiritual claims. That evidence simply isn’t available to be accessed by the nonbeliever, it must be located and apprehended by those who are willing to search despite lack of belief.</p><p>I didn’t believe in a goddamned thing when I started searching for spiritual truth. I was of the same mind as most atheists. It’s silly, stupid, only the country rube who didn’t know any better would believe in this crap. I didn’t like the arrogance of that position, and enough time online listening to the self-righteous nonsense of the atheist with a soapbox led me to seek out alternative spiritual types in my late late teens.</p><p>With these people, I read, studied, meditated, tried as much as I could to keep an open mind. When I fell away from the scene a few years later, I had learned to meditate and that was perhaps the biggest thing I took from that experience. I certainly didn’t believe in the goddess, even though I’d participated in numerous rituals. It just turned out that Wicca wasn’t for me.</p><p>But the atheists you see today don’t bother ever conducting any reasonable search before simply determining that it’s all bollucks. So convinced are they of their own intellectual superiority. Is it really that hard to believe that there are truths out there that you have to suspend belief to explore before you can validate are true?</p><p>That’s why I dislike the first assertion. Just because you’re not seeing evidence doesn’t mean the evidence doesn’t exist. Just that you’re not seeing it.</p><p>The second claim is less far-fetched. Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. I haven’t heard a more self-evident statement.</p><p>I haven’t started getting into Christianity until very very recently. Why? The literal claim that Jesus rose from the dead and taught people for weeks before he died again. Extraordinary claim. Where’s the evidence? Well remember what I said before, that sometimes evidence can be hard to gather?</p><p>Why is this such a hard thing to understand? If you went back 200 years ago and took a book of quantum mechanics with you they’d look at you like an absolute crackpot who just wrote all that crap down from delusions and straight up chicanery. They didn’t have the microscopes and particle accelerators or even the <i>math</i> to make sense of it.</p><p>You can gather evidence for Christianity, at least for its plausibility if not for its actuality. The gospels aren’t the most reliable historical narrative, but if you get serious about a mystical exploration then you can have experiences that can convince you that spiritual reality can actually affect material reality. I’ve had those experiences myself.</p><p>Once you’ve validated for yourself that our physical laws aren’t completely ironclad then you can look at the Biblical narratives in a totally different light. The actual historical <i>novelty </i>of the teachings paints a different picture. And studying enough actual historical events leads one to the conclusion that actual history tends to be crazier than the reported events state.</p><p><b>Something</b> lit a fire up under the butts of Roman Jews. If the gospel narrative didn’t happen precisely as described, it almost certainly would be a really interesting story anyway. And Christianity would only be enhanced by the actual truth, not diminished. I don’t need Jesus to have actually risen from death for Christianity to be amazing and worthy as a creed.</p>
