---
layout: post
title: Is consciousness giving us a next dimensional state of mind?
date: 2018-10-22
---

<p>Think about the concept of dimension. Let’s start with two dimensions. You can move in four directions, north, south, east and west. But really those are just two axes, and you can move in an infinite number of directions. But wait there’s more. You can also <i>rotate</i>.</p><p>These are <i>degrees of freedom</i>. Manners in which you can add color and complexity while still retaining the same number of <i>dimensions</i>. You can add countless degrees of freedom to a dimension without it actually becoming a new dimension.</p><p>If you have a Sixaxis controller, so named for the six degrees of freedom it gives you, then can move a character in three dimensional space fairly easily. How could you add more degrees of freedom? What if you added a keyboard to the controller so you can communicate in game? Does each key add a degree of freedom?</p><p>Every mental aspect we have creates another degree of freedom we can use to move ourselves in our environment.</p><p>Let’s return to video games for a second. There was a style of RPG back in the nineties that had “2.5” dimensions. You moved around on a two dimensional map, but could still jump. Some objects had height attributes, but most of the game was generally played on a flat surface.</p><p>We can project 3 dimensions onto two, allowing us to perceive three dimensional space in a two dimensional medium.</p><p>My understanding is that consciousness is a projection of a four-dimensional agency into a three dimensional body.</p>
