---
layout: post
title: Why do some people actually believe in clairvoyance and psychic abilities?
date: 2018-08-11
---

<p>Having actually experienced these things I can tell you that they just don’t work the way a rational mind would expect them to. You’re tuning your mind like a radio, and you don’t even know what the dial is doing. You can get it really really right, and also really really wrong. But being wrong has a way of being right in a way that matters, while still being wrong in the ‘rational’ sense.</p><p>You get led astray, down the garden path, on an adventure that eventually leads to wisdom and growth. Every single conceivable ‘useful’ supernatural ‘ability’ has this feature.</p><p>The only real way out of it is to make it natural. If I attune along these lines, then any time I look at someone, I get a little psychic sense for what sort of person they are, what kinds of crosses they bear, and how they’re experiencing life at that point in time.</p><p>If I were to start actually interacting with them, the trickle turns into a flood. Nothing verbalizable and therefore falsifiable, just vague senses. Generally this psychic sense determines how I go about interacting them, and their responses feed into the process of intuition.</p><p>When I first started noticing this, it was in the context of trying to develop ‘external’ senses, like the aforementioned clairvoyance, though that particular ability never seemed that interesting to me. I eventually realized that the constant ‘adventures’ of trying to do something unnatural were just distracting me from the more powerful technique of simply blending the rational and the intuitive together.</p><p>So yes, I do actually believe in psychic abilities. I just don’t believe they’re really all that.</p>
