---
layout: post
title: If faith is dead without works, how can grace alone lead to salvation?
date: 2018-07-18
---

<p>Faith, not works leading to salvation, that is Christian theological doctrine. It even has a name that’s fun to say, <i>sola fide</i>. It’s a statement intended to be taken as metaphysical and moral truth.</p><p>Grace, theologically speaking, is that which is given to us by God simply because He wants us to have it, not because we’ve done anything to earn it.</p><p>When you pray to God for forgiveness, you have not necessarily earned His forgiveness, but He gives it to you anyway. That’s grace.</p><p>Where the problem comes in is in whether a person has <i>enough</i> faith to earn salvation. Is merely saying the Lord’s Prayer once in your life enough? Must you go through baptism and be listed on a “proper” church’s communion rolls? Precisely what is it about any of these acts that determines that you have the proper faith to get into heaven?</p><p>Faith without works being dead is narrative exposition intended to clarify this point of contention. Your faith is dead unless you are taking action to glorify God. This now raises the question, “well, what kinds of action,” but scripture couldn’t possibly offer an answer to that question because any answer would invalidate faith without works.</p><p>The problem isn’t that there’s something wrong with either statement. Sola Fide works just fine, and “faith is dead without works” is perfectly fine as a clarifying addition. The problem, as always, is human nature. Reading scripture without the clarification of theological doctrine yields the insight that you should just do what you can to glorify God, that’s how you know your faith is alive and that you’ll be able to go to Heaven after you die.</p><p>No the problem is as soon as you start <i>organizing</i> people around theology, then all of a sudden it becomes a heck of a lot more important to get clear about what you mean, because organizations have to set <i>policy</i> around those principles.</p><p>This again, is something scripture deals with over and over again. Before anointing Saul, God laments to him that He gave His people everything, but they cannot be satisfied with just obtaining direction and wisdom from Him, they clamor for a king and worldly power. God would prefer that we turn to Him for guidance and eventual clarity, but instead we want to live in the realm of rules and reason. We don’t want divine mystery, we just want God to do everything for us.</p><p>The answer to any question that scripture doesn’t address is always best obtained straight from God. If you can’t obtain it from God, ask from your fellow Christians. If your fellow Christians can’t answer, try your pastor. If even your pastor can’t answer, well, time to think bigger.</p>
