---
layout: post
title: What’s the point of reincarnation if you can’t remember your past life? What&#39;s the lesson learnt?
date: 2018-12-04
---

<p>The point of reincarnation is to ultimately create a form of existence that is non-temporal. As you pass through lives, each individual life and the experiences that life had slowly melds together to form a consciousness that can respond to anything thrown at it.</p><p>When you are dreaming, you briefly inhabit a completely imagined body with a completely imagined history, yet this doesn’t give us pause. You might dream that you are a detective on the trail of a murderer. Despite you never having any experience doing any actual detective work, your mind just fills in the blanks and crafts a story out of it anyway.</p><p>How does this work? How do you recognize the detective in the story as you? Nobody told you that you were the detective, and nobody told you that your best friend Chrissy is the murderer you’re seeking. Instead there’s some recognizance process that happens. The characters in the dream are imbued with the <i>essence</i> of you and your friend.</p><p>You can imagine yourself as something you’re not because you have a soul, an irreducible form, unique only to you, that you can recognize. This soul gets <i>projected</i>, not just into you and your dream characters, but also into everything else you do. When you were on the trail of your best friend Chrissy, you found little clues that made you think, “oh that’s so Chrissy, that’s exactly something she would have done.” What you were recognizing is Chrissy’s essence projected into something she did.</p><p>What happens when you move on to your next life is that your unique soul simply projects into a new body. It’s the same as having a dream, only more solid and real and complicated.</p><p>Why do we do this? Why don’t we simply project into one body and have that body forever? Well, even if we did, we’d get tired of having the same body and mind eventually. I believe as we grow and mature and gain consciousness, we slowly build the ability to stay in the same body and not get bored. I think most beings spend some time in the ‘spirit’ world and some time in material worlds.</p><p>But as you spend more lifetimes in the material world, the weight of all previous existences bears down on your current existence, and you just get more comfortable starting from literally nothing as a baby and making a life in a physical world. This is what is meant by ‘spiritual advancement’. Your essence reflects all those previous lifetimes.</p>
