---
layout: post
title: How do I dissociate my identity from the body on the path to spiritual enlightenment?
date: 2018-06-03
---

<p>There are two senses in which to take this question, the strong and the weak.</p><p>The strong sense is in literally cutting your being off from your body. This only happens at death. So you can’t do this except through suicide, and suicide does not push you any farther on the path to enlightenment.</p><p>This has greater considerations than just the literal. It also affects the mystical. (everything affects the mystical) When you’re deep in trance, you feel dissociated from your body. But underneath, your mind and body are still functioning largely the same. It’s just your mind playing tricks on you, that’s what trance is. (or is it you playing tricks on your mind? So confusing!) Trance is akin to a dreamlike state where you remain aware in the dream. It’s nothing <i>particularly</i> special from a metaphysical point of view, you leave the body in a difference sense than the one that you immediately think you do.</p><p>No, the sense that relates to spiritual enlightenment is the one in which you’re approaching <i>non-duality</i>. People in the early stages of their spiritual evolution identify as their body, when their body dies, they do. As you learn and grow, soon you transfer that identity to mind. You start to feel like your mind can leave your body and you’ll still continue as as a singular being. Eventually you transfer that identity to awareness, the aspect of witnessing and responding to things. Materialism fades away and the transcendent reigns supreme.</p><p>Non-duality happens when you surrender even that identity to reach a stage where you don’t identify as much of anything at all. Difficult to describe, which is why enlightenment is such a mystery. But identity is diffuse at this stage, it’s not just one thing. You can have a body and a mind and awareness, but are none of these things.</p><p>At some point in that last paragraph is where my understandings and beliefs veer off from Buddhism. But Buddhism holds that eventually you stop reincarnating, stop self-enforcing separation from the universe. This is ultimate enlightenment, true cessation of separation.</p>
