---
layout: post
title: Is there any good, solid, rational, believable evidence of an afterlife?
date: 2018-01-30
---

<p>No. If you’re asking for evidence then you’re asking for something to fit into the extant materialistic scientific framing of how the universe works. This evidence does not exist. It may never exist. Belief has always worked this way, it’s always been the irrational thing to do.</p><p>That said, if you’re willing to entertain beliefs that aren’t entirely <i>rational</i>, then an afterlife is an eminently <i>reasonable</i> thing to believe in. On the spectrum of spiritual beliefs, you can proceed from the benign to weird to crazy to insane to straight-up malicious.</p><p>Benign is anything taught by a major religion. Seems a little boring until you start probing the history, then you will find amazing depth. One can easily spend their entire lives never venturing outside established belief systems. This is where afterlives live.</p><p>Weird is stuff like Wicca. It riffs off of benign themes, teaches different ways to reach the same results. Instead of going to church with your community members, you have rituals with 4 other weirdos in some dude’s basement.</p><p>Crazy is when you start venturing outside of even these forms. Back when I was doing more of this stuff, I ran into a legit sex cult. I was way too buttoned up to be able to participate, and soon fell away from alternative religion entirely, but it gets even crazier.</p><p>Insane is when this stuff starts really getting into your head and you start making life decisions based on it. Osho’s “Big Muddy Ranch” in Oregon qualifies here. Once you start wandering around this space, it’s only a matter of time until you start running into the truly malicious.</p><p>This is Jim Jones demanding everyone practice mass ritual suicide every day. Ma Anand Sheela orchestrating the only mass bioterror attack ever initiated on American soil.</p><p>But you just want to believe in an afterlife? Here’s your gold star for the day.</p>
