---
layout: post
title: Can a spiritual enlightenment cure psychological issues like negative self worth, low assertiveness, etc?
date: 2018-09-09
---

<p>No. You need to work on those issues separately.</p><p>What enlightenment does do is remove the suffering that these issues cause. If you’re not identified with your mind, then a negative self-worth isn’t going to be all that big of a deal to you. It’ll just be something that you have, not something that controls you.</p><p>A lot of people seem surprised to find out that their self doesn’t really go anywhere after they get enlightened. People that seek enlightenment think they’re looking for transformation, but what they’re actually seeking is oblivion. They want the self that they hate to just go away.</p><p>But, well, it doesn’t. The enlightened person gains additional avenues for expression other than their small-s self, but the small-s self is still there.</p><p>What are these issues? Basically, they’re patterns in the brain that enforce certain reactions to things. You do not have to listen to these patterns when you become enlightened, but unless you’re quite familiar with the enlightened state, you’re not going to be able to find a <i>coherent</i> way to interact with the world except through your old self.</p><p>Oh sure, you’ll be able to wax effusive positivity and talk about the new spiritual reality you’re now seeing, but others and the world just aren’t geared for interacting this way so eventually the way you’re acting will start to feel as off as your old self was.</p><p>You’ll pick up your old self, dust it off, and re-inhabit it like an old t-shirt. Acting from your old frames won’t cause you the same kind of distress it used to cause, but at the same time, it feels like a step backward. You didn’t seek enlightenment so that you could move backward.</p><p>There are two ways forward from here. The first is to try to excise the small self from your life completely. This is the way of the guru, use your new-found spiritual powers to create a reality in which you no longer need to interact with the world the same way you used to. But the only way to really do that is to present yourself to the world as someone to be respected and listened to. Oh, don’t forget donated to. You still need to eat and pay your rent.</p><p>The second path is integration. You willingly re-embody your small self rather than push it off to the side like an old toy. The upside to this is that it’s much easier to re-integrate back into society. The downside is that you have to re-integrate back into society. It can be hard to see this as the fun adventure that it actually is. Enlightenment does not make you perfectly insightful, particularly about your own life and mental state. It just takes away the identification and resulting distress from being human.</p><p>Both are really hard paths to follow, nothing about enlightenment makes life easier. It can take a year or more to make the decision about which to follow. If you think offing yourself is the way to go, some people have even claimed that enlightenment is fatal to some percentage of people who achieve it, then think again. You’re just going to reincarnate anew as a non-enlightened person, achieve enlightenment again, and be faced all over with the dilemma.</p><p>It’s my conviction that people don’t just achieve nonduality once in their evolution, they go through the process many, many times, each time refining their response and assumption of the state. One sage was said to have reached enlightenment at the age of six.</p><p>Eventually you’ll just get born enlightened, and have to come to terms with that. This is what I have to deal with.</p>
