---
layout: post
title: What can I say to my friend to get him to leave Scientology?
date: 2018-12-14
---

<p>I have had many friends in the past who got caught up in toxic situations. One of my friends was homeless for a short period of time, then got picked up for armed robbery, did four years in the pen, then when he got out he stayed in a codependent relationship out of necessity.</p><p>The thing about codependence you need to realize is that the people who get wrapped up in them spend a lot more time with them than you do. So it’s a ‘forest for the trees’ sort of situation. One thing I like to do to let someone get above all the trees so that they can see a way out is to get on the topic of their current situation, shut up, and let them try to make sense of it.</p><p>Just having someone to explain their situation to, without judgment or argument, goes a long way. They already know what the problem is, their mind can’t help but keep going back to it. But having to justify why they won’t take the obvious step <i>to another human being</i> is the quickest way to get them to acknowledge what’s really needed.</p><p>Once they know what they need to do, that’s when you can start discussing specifics. So in the case of my friend, once he’s in the mindset where he knows he has to leave the relationship, I can ask about his plan. Then we can firm up details about how much money he needs, where he plans on staying in the beginning, stuff like that.</p><p>But it starts with an open, non-judgmental listening process where you don’t try to impress upon your friend why <b>you</b> think <b>he</b> should take a course of action that <b>you</b> would like to see him do. Work on it together.</p><p>My former friend eventually got out from under it, though we’re no longer speaking anymore as another one of his many problems was that he’d only call me when he needed money, and it was always a ‘gotta stop what I’m doing to get him fixed up’ sort of situation.</p>
