---
layout: post
title: Is it God&#39;s purpose for atheists to remind us that He is unknowable?
date: 2018-09-16
---

<p>No. God’s purpose for atheists is to remind His people that if they’re not careful, atheism will take over and we will have broken our covenant.</p><p>If you look at the Bible from a high-level perspective, it has a pattern. Humans forget God and become wicked, God makes an example, both by punishing the wicked directly but also by providing a patriarchal figure to lead His people away from temptation.</p><p>People get God’s punishment all wrong. He doesn’t chastise people that He doesn’t care about. He doesn’t care about people that never cared about Him. The punishment for people that never cared about God is simple, <i>they</i> <i>have to live lives apart from God</i>.</p><p>No, God punishes people who used God for their own purposes and then threw Him away later. Atheists need not fear God’s punishment because atheists never chose God. God is well aware of how people become atheists, their parents and social systems fail them, so people never come to an understanding of God. It’s not the atheist’s fault.</p><p>That said, God made various <i>covenants</i> with His people over the course of history. These covenants generally specify <i>how to live lives in ways that bring you closer, not further from God</i>.</p><p>These covenants work at a social level, they work to eliminate wickedness and idolatry at the root. Humanity’s base desires lead them astray, they need strong guidance to keep them from succumbing to evil.</p><p>When made, covenants are promised to last forever, but in practice only last until the human society that made them forgets. The covenant can get adjusted, throughout the Davidic line certain restrictions got eased and others ceased to make sense. But eventually society rots from the top down, the leaders get contemptuous of God, and then that rot slowly spreads throughout society, until wickedness becomes <i>normal.</i> God’s judgment doesn’t arise until it becomes <i>impossible</i> for a good man, an angel even, to do good things in the world.</p><p>God then wipes the slate clean and starts all over again. The Bible chronicles this cycle and humanity’s slow rise from the impossible position Adam and Eve find themselves in after getting cast from the Garden of Eden, all the way to the accession of the most perfect teacher and messiah that God could have ever sent to us to the dominion of the most perfect kingdom of Heaven that could ever be imagined. A ruler that <i>serves.</i></p><p>After the story of Jesus, the new Christians, safe with their new covenant and energized with the new pattern of <b>just</b> living, that of loving your neighbor, treating him like your brother, Christians set about building a new world, reaching ever new heights, creating not just an ethereal kingdom of Heaven, but also creating the new <i>body</i> of Christ, the Christian church, who at one point held power over real, actual <b>kings.</b></p><p>The significance of this cannot be understated. God, previously, could only speak to a wayward king through a prophet. Prophets are easy to ignore, and often were. But now God had an organization to call His own, run by flawed, fallible humans, but a channel nonetheless through which to greater engage with His people.</p><p>The Catholic Church shepherded His people through the dark times of the fall of the Roman Empire and into the medieval and then Renaissance, where it started to falter. The reason why it faltered is the same reason it always was. Rot from the very top. The rot culminated in the second great schism of the body of Christ. The first could have arguably been seen as necessary, the East could never have gotten along with the West. This, this “reformation” was senseless, understandable only in the context of vice and iniquity.</p><p>The great and sturdy tree of Christianity has been reduced to a feeble thread, and threatens to shatter altogether, and atheism is the harbinger of that destiny. Once we lose connection with Christ, with the history of two thousand years, that wonderful story of humanity’s deliverance from the base and immoral, future generations are going to have to re-learn those lessons. Rebuild that history.</p><p>It won’t happen in our generation or even the next. But eventually, people will lose the common thread binding them together and we’ll all be on our own instead of working together for a common purpose. Those are the true end times. Forget about Judgment Day and the Apocalypse. Eschatology serves the present needs of people to warn each other against idolatry and wickedness.</p><p>No the true end times is that humans simply lose God, and therefore their way. Atheists seem like they want this, but they’re still living in the world that Christian generosity and hard work created, a magical land of plenty whereby the deserving can prosper. When that too goes away, atheists will find out just how hard a problem getting people to cooperate really is.</p><p>They’ll either rediscover religion or they’ll try to reinvent it. But it’ll be too late. The world will be back to what it was before Christ, a loose collection of nations that all hate each other and see no reason to help succeed. This state of affairs can last centuries before God sends another teacher.</p>
