---
layout: post
title: Where do thoughts come from and where do they go?
date: 2018-11-15
---

<p>Your brain is a collection of cells, called neurons, each of which evolved to do one thing and do it well. Sense an electrical impulse, and react to it by modulating it a little bit and passing it on to another bundle of neurons. Different neurons do this slightly differently and there are different types of neurons that do it more differently than other neurons of other types.</p><p>All physical sensations get converted into electrical impulses and pass into the brain, going through sophisticated ‘circuitry’ designed to transform them into ‘thoughts’ that can enter the brain. Your whole nervous system evolved to collect information from all over your body and pipe it into your brain.</p><p>So your brain has electrical signals zooming around it, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The condition of not having electrical signals zooming around inside is called “brain death.” But not all of these electrical signals reaches awareness, you don’t know about all your heartbeats, so obviously some of this brain activity can be termed “thought” and some of it cannot.</p><p>Reptiles have brain structures called basal ganglia that are responsible for conducting decision-making at the very basic life and death level. Anybody whose ever experienced a legit fight-or-flight response where your conscious brain processes get overridden by an instinct has witnessed the basal ganglia in action. This doesn’t happen very often in modern society but the basal ganglia is also involved in forming the very basic substrate on which experience happens.</p><p>Close to the basal ganglia is the paleo-mammalian cortex, colloquially called the limbic system. The limbic system primarily takes its input from the basal ganglia and further adds color and meaning to brain activity. These are deep instinctual patterns, evolved long before there were ever even apes, let alone humans, and are responsible for our emotions. If you study the way reptiles and mammals behave, you can see the enormous difference the limbic system generates in how they make decisions and act.</p><p>Also present in mammals is the neo-mammalian cortex, colloquially called the neocortex or forebrain. This is where complex thought is generated. In most mammals, all thought orients solely around sensory experience. The neocortex provides for problem solving, and interplays with the limbic system to allow mammals to pursue interpersonal relationships within their social group.</p><p>Humans alone have two specialized brain structures that provide for translating brain activity into <i>symbolic</i> representations of the electrical signals. These are words and thoughts.</p><p>So, all in all, your senses take in information, transmit them through the nervous system into the brain, starting at the basal ganglia, which emits signals which the limbic system then uses to determine how to <i>feel</i> about them, the prefrontal cortex decides what further to <i>do</i> about them, and this whole process gets picked up on by the linguistic systems to make <i>meaning</i> out of it so that you can either communicate them to other humans, or further mull it over so that you can maybe think of better solutions.</p><p>Thought, when distinguished from ‘mere’ feelings and emotions, is simply the interplay between the linguistic system that humans alone have, and the prefrontal cortex, with an additional role served by the limbic system.</p><p>Each of these systems of the brain is, again, made up of neurons, whose <i>only jobs</i> is to take electrical signals, react to them, and send them on to other neurons. <b>Everything</b> that we consider happening in the brain, from consciousness to thought to feeling, is a consequence of these neurons operating.</p>
