---
layout: post
title: Are any ideas that are commonly associated with Christian teachings not actually backed up by the Bible?
date: 2018-07-08
---

<p>By many definitions of "backed up," most Christian teachings cannot be justified directly by the Bible. The Bible is not one collection of books but two, one of which is shared with at least five other religions.</p><p>Religions necessarily evolve over time, despite their best intentions. Questions come up that demand answers. One of the first was whether Jesus was actually God or not. None of Jesus's apostles thought it was important at the time and it would have been unreasonable to expect them to. If they chased down answers to all possible theological questions, Jesus would have never found time for his ministry!</p><p>So as a result a dedicated group of people study, meditate, pray, commune with God to try to come up with good, cohesive answers. The difficulty is that even if God announced His preferred answers, everyone still has to agree. Paradoxically, God's hardest task is to teach us. That's what He sent Jesus here for!</p><p>God Himself appears to be perfectly fine with religious evolution, in fact He often seems to drive the process Himself. When religions evolve, old understandings, even those set "in stone" in Scripture has to be recontextualized. A good example is how earlier myths like what's now called Flat Earth Creationism are now considered allegorical, whereas at one point there were considered historical. Or understandings of history, of ourselves, and of God improve over time , so obviously our beliefs need to keep up.</p>
