---
layout: post
title: How might the problem of evil and suffering lead one to the conclusion that moral absolutes exist?
date: 2018-11-01
---

<p>There can’t be any doubt that morality is absolute. A certain action is either right or wrong. One action may be more wrong than other actions, for instance pirating music is less wrong than murdering your mother. Or that situational context can mean that things just aren’t as wrong as they look on the surface.</p><p>But the fact that we can talk about things being right and wrong, in and of itself, means that there is something called right and wrong, and that we can rationally work out what’s what. You might not agree on the <i>specifics</i> or the <i>relevance</i> of right and wrong, but you can’t argue that they don’t <i>exist</i>.</p><p>Abrahamic theology (that which primarily stems from what we now call the Old Testament) holds that suffering would not exist if humans didn’t do horrible things to each other. If there is a famine, then people would share with each other and everybody would weather the hard times together.</p><p>But people are selfish and will deny others a share in the resources generated by society, for no good reason than that they can. And the people that do this end up being stronger than the people that don’t do this.</p><p>This is evil. When people do horrible things to other people for selfish gain, making themselves stronger and thus more able to perpetuate the oppression.</p><p>The ancient Jews came up with this pretty novel idea at the time, that it was God that was the source of <i>morality</i>, the code of behavior that leads people to not fall sway to evil.</p><p>Abrahamic scripture is pretty clear in its message if you read it carefully enough. The source of evil is us. We can become evil because we are flawed and imperfect. The God of the Bible wants us to rise above evil. The way God chooses to do that is to <i>teach</i> us. Our lives are explorations into the morass of wanting things and having to find out ways of getting them.</p><p>God is there with us the whole time while we do this. We can either walk <b>with</b> God, allowing His ideas and lessons to reach us, or we can choose to walk alone, and thus be forced to learn from our own mistakes.</p><p>History has shown that just adorning yourself with God doesn’t prevent you from being evil, and it doesn’t prevent entire societies and churches from falling victim to evil tendencies. Mother Theresa was lionized as an agent of God, but later on it was revealed just how sadistic and self-serving she really was. Her lionization was an evil act, and the evil permeated throughout all who looked up to her and her example.</p><p>In these lessons, you can see how morality itself doesn’t change, even as situations and personas and circumstances do. Where does this morality come from? If not God then where?</p><p>To truly walk with God, you have to open your heart to Him and allow yourself to be transformed.</p>
