---
layout: post
title: If enlightened beings have witnessed the truth of existence, why do they speak in platitudes and assemble in remote retreats instead of collectively demonstrating these truths to humanity?
date: 2018-06-20
---

<p>Existence has this weird quality that it never gets old to meditate on. Whatever new truth you’ve just gleaned about existence, doesn’t actually <i>change</i> anything. Things continue to operate the exact same way as before. It just makes everything make more sense. It causes a <b>lot</b> of frustration in new seekers. They’re learning so much, why aren’t things changing for them?</p><p>It’s extremely difficult to convey this in a way that’s easily relatable. This is why, for a long long time, spirituality was conducted through <i>stories</i> that you had to <i>believe</i> in to get value from. I love the story of David in the Bible and look at David as an aspirational figure. I want to <b>be</b> more like David. So whenever I have something I’m not sure about, I often think back to David as a model for how I could be.</p><p>Well, to put it lightly, this only takes you so far. Conveying truths that are more transcendent require a different style of writing than any narrative can really approach. And as you get more meta, the <i>utility</i> value of the conveyed truth to <i>change</i> things gets more and more elusive.</p><p>I’ve articulated two extremely novel systems for dealing with the world of meaning that you can read about on my blog. Even though they’re amazing and I use them every day to make sense of things, it would take a <b>lot</b> more work to make them relatable to people that aren’t mystical like me. And, well, I’m too busy doing my own thing.</p><p>The fact of the matter is, once you get far enough along your own path, you realize that the world just isn’t interested in mysticism. The ones that are, find it themselves. They need <i>their</i> mysticism, not yours.</p>
