---
layout: post
title: What philosophical arguments can be made against the claim that we are in a virtual reality?
date: 2018-04-07
---

<p>The biggest one I can think of is that our measurements are too precise. The hardware simulating our universe appears to use <i>real</i> numbers rather than fractional ones, which would be much easier to compute. By “much easier” I mean the difference between building a calcuator in Minecraft using redstone and computing the precise energy states of all the atoms in the ocean.</p><p>If we observed simpler, easier to compute quantum values for measurements, then that would be a pretty good indicator that we’re living in a simulated world. But as it is now, if our world is simulated, it’s either using math we know to be impossible to actually compute, and therefore build a simulation on, or it’s cheating.</p><p>Cheating would mean using expensive math when people are looking, but simpler, easier math when they aren’t. Neutonian dynamics when we’re not measuring at all, relativity when we put a microscope to it, special relativity when you are making nuclear reactors, quantum physics to handle our particle accelerators. Each successive field of physics uses exponentially more resources to simulate and predict, and quantum physics is impossible to predict. Perhaps the machine really does have enough power to simulate the truly ridiculously absurd number of particle interactions taking place simultaneously, but it’s likely practical considerations would force them to cheat.</p><p>Where this gets tricky is when we start building machines that track large numbers of measurements at a time, forcing the simulation to start using exponentially more resources to preserve the illusion of continuous reality. If we ever start casually exploiting quantum physics the way we exploit electrical dynamics, then our alien gardeners are going to find their greenhouse power bills going way up.</p>
