---
layout: post
title: What age do you think should be the legal drinking age in the US?
date: 2018-08-14
---

<p>21. I have no quarrel with the status quo.</p><p>Alcohol is <b>dangerous</b>. Not just dangerous to others around you if you drink and drive, it’s incredibly dangerous to your mental health and can ruin your ability to function effectively in society and relationships.</p><p>Alcohol addiction is made worse by starting earlier. Once you get those brain pathways hooked on the change in consciousness alcohol makes in your mind, dislodging the need for that change is going from an uphill battle to fighting while trying to climb a mountain.</p><p>Everyone who drinks flirts with the spectre of addiction. You can manage the risks, talk out the problem with friends and loved ones, ask for help when you need it. I know a 25 year old friend of mine who got so bad he was drinking multiple bottles of whiskey a day like it was water. He cleaned up, with help, and is doing fine now. Another one who is just starting to realize the problem he’s developing and where it’s eventually going to lead.</p><p>But you need to let your emotional center develop <i>before</i> you need it. If it’s not developed, and you get addicted, then you won’t be able to see the problems it’s causing for you and you’ll never get help until you really do hit rock bottom.</p><p>18 is just too young. 21 is probably also too young. 23–24 to me is the age at which you can start messing around with alcohol.</p><p>Honestly, the main thing keeping young people from getting addicted is the expense. But you can do a lot of damage to yourself when you get together with buddies at parties and drink your faces off.</p>
