---
layout: post
title: Why do we have one god?
date: 2018-05-07
---

<p>This is a really good, basic question, and the answer runs through history and the nature of the human mind.</p><p>Humans are practically hard-wired for belief. Given a sufficiently powerful story, that can be told by anyone who figures out the trick of it, and a lack of viable alternatives, the human mind will start looking to build on that story in order to find meaning in it. The end result of this is belief.</p><p>You can see this today in comic and movie fandoms. Some Star Wars fans were greatly disappointed in the new Star Wars because it didn’t fit what they wanted out of the movie. Despite the fact that it was Star Wars to its very core, it didn’t have certain elements that the “diehard” fans really really wanted to see, an example of which being ‘proper’ parentage for Rey.</p><p>See how this ended in belief? These fans originally just enjoyed the stories, then they wound up managing to form beliefs around them.</p><p>Religions are beliefs in the literal truth of stories. The stories, we call them myths, didn’t start out that way, but refinement over generations turned them into the genre of literature that we call <i>scripture</i>, which is expected to be used as a source for truth.</p><p>Stories tend to have larger than life figures, and the consideration of these characters slowly evolved into <i>deities</i>. Hercules morphs from just a hero that did awesome things to the son of Zeus. Zeus being a mythic character with all kinds of legends of his own.</p><p>The reason myth evolves into religion is because of the political utility of people believing in things. People that believe in things will work hard to <i>glorify</i> those things, way harder than they’ll work to, say, fix your fence or plow your fields. It was mightily advantageous to leaders of people to couch what they wanted to do in terms of the stories people wanted to believe in. This is how things like the pyramids get built.</p><p>Religion is systemized and codified belief, and the process of systemization and codification become so important that an industry of myth makers would work hard to translate political will into reasons why people should believe in it.</p><p>Well, at some point states evolved, where a whole segment of the population is devoted to governance. These states could raise and deploy armies, and these armies could go exert military dominance over other peoples and co-opt their productive capabilities for the empire.</p><p>The thing about a military conquest is that people just won’t work as hard if they don’t believe in what they’re doing. So it made a lot of sense for empires to get really liberal about what constitutes religion. So you see these big pantheons start to emerge. Each Greek tribe had their own godly champion, and as they got yoked to greater Greece, their gods joined the pantheon and the myths of the champions got worked into the broader mythology of the area.</p><p>Not all peoples became subjected to this kind of spiritual coercion. An important early religion was Zoroastrianism, which held that its God was supreme over all. It wasn’t strictly monotheistic, but it was close. Some of the ideas were taken by the first truly monotheistic religion, Judaism.</p><p>Jews invented the concept of <i>ethical monotheism</i>. This holds that all morality flows from God. This formed a serious counterweight to the prevailing understanding at the time that the <b>state</b> was the source of morality, and earned Jews the enmity of kings the world over. Nevertheless the idea that the state should <b>follow</b> God’s law, and not that the state <b>makes</b> God’s law, was hugely influential, and the ideas evolved in Judaism’s great offshoot, Christianity.</p><p>Polytheism just kinda fell by the wayside as the Christians overtook Europe. It lived on in what we now call <i>mystery traditions</i> in the Germanic countryside. Christianity faced the same problems the earlier empires did in assimilating remote peoples who didn’t follow the faith, and so adopted their own solution, sainthood. Pagan myths and holy figures got Christian whitewashing and so now we have an amazingly diverse mixture of tradition and belief. All you have to do to see this is to look at Christmas, where the attention paid to Santa Clause, a Christian whitewashing of numerous, similar European myths.</p><p>But it just turned out that followers of monotheistic religions worked harder than polytheistic religions, so the monotheists won out in the end. The same psychological, and thus historical, forces were at work in the East, but monotheism never fully conquered India, while totalitarianism did it’s best to break up the power of religion in China. If you redirect belief in stories and God to belief in the state, you get a similar, though smaller boost.</p>
