---
layout: post
title: All the guys in my life end up being my friend. Then, I later hear they had feelings for me, and that it was &#39;obvious&#39; but I never noticed. None of them ever confessed or asked me out. I would have accepted to some, but why is it that they never do?
date: 2018-08-02
---

<p>When you’re young, particularly if you’ve had a hard childhood, your emotional complex is underdeveloped and as a result, your own feelings are hard to read. When you can’t identify how you’re feeling or those feelings can’t prompt you to actually do anything about them, then you can’t read others’ feelings nor prompt others to do anything about their emotions as well.</p><p>The only way out of this is to develop your emotions. Seek out feeling wherever you find it. My chosen approach was really sad anime shows. Tragedy has a way of teasing out complicated emotion, this is what you want.</p><p>When you have a well-regulated emotional center, then you won’t want to let interesting possibilities go. You’ll really feel the sense of loss. And that feeling will get sensed by the other person and they’ll start to mirror you. With that sense of tragedy in mind, that feeling that <i>if I don’t do something now, nothing will ever happen between us</i>, will drive <b>the both of you</b> into action, because you both share the feeling.</p><p>A slight touch, a nod, just a gesture, returned in kind with <i>warmth</i>, is all you need to verify that mutual attraction is present. But if you’re too cut off from those emotions, you won’t even recognize other people having them until it’s way, way, way too late.</p>
