---
layout: post
title: How did God punish those who worshipped other gods?
date: 2018-10-15
---

<p>He didn't. Or rather, He punishes them by letting them deal with the consequences of their own actions, by not helping them.</p><p>God's primary utility to man isn't His grace, it's His<i> guidance</i>. God simply giving you things doesn't really help you at all. Anything given is quickly forgotten about. Most people who are the recipients of a small amount of generosity, particularly when they perceive that they need more than the amount given, is to beg or demand more.</p><p>You’ve heard the phrase “give a man a fish, and he eats for a day, teach him to fish, and he eats for a lifetime?” That’s God’s dilemma writ large. People just won’t listen to you without an elaborate carrot-stick motivation mechanism.</p><p>Abrahamic theology states that God’s solution to the problem was to pick a group of people, who clearly didn’t deserve it, and to guide them using a blend of paternalistic teaching, grand spectacle, and sometimes just pushing them all off into slavery.</p><p>Genesis has God creating this planet and giving it to the humans to master and govern. But the people He chose to do that simply aren’t up to the task. That task was to be accomplished by the Romans. God didn’t punish the Romans for failing to live according to God, for the Romans knew not about God. God left the Romans alone, and the Romans succeeded without needing God.</p><p>The next chapter in the Isrealites’ lives after trying and failing to make their theocratic monarchical dreams work in the real world is for God to show them that they needed to temper these ambitions. The Isrealites simply can’t fight the Romans.</p><p>It’s easy to think that every little difference between people is due to God, if the Romans conquered Isreal, that must mean that God favored the Romans. But God doesn’t work that way. When God delivered Israel into Babylonian slavery He didn’t stop being their God.</p><p>God wanted His people to change, to learn, to grow, so He sent, first a challenge, the Romans, and then a teacher to show them how to overcome that challenge. That teacher wound up being the most successful spiritual teacher the world had ever known, and he managed to do it, not despite, but rather<b> through,</b> his death.</p><p>Throughout it all, who God punishes remained the same. God only punishes those He loves. He punished the Jews who refused Jesus by having the Romans destroy their temple. The Christians already moved their temple to where Jesus told them it belonged, in the body of Christ, the people who believed in Jesus. So Christians lost nothing when the Romans sacked the temple of Jerusalem.</p>
