---
layout: post
title: Is the state of enlightenment a no-consciousness state that lasts forever?
date: 2018-10-16
---

<p>I have found that there is a significant unconscious component that rarely ever gets written about.</p><p>Normal ‘mode’ has the mind receiving information filtered largely through the conscious. If the conscious mind does not understand the information being presented, the normal reaction is to try to apply logic so as to find rational patterns.</p><p>Spiritual ‘mode’ has the mind broaden its search past the rational and into the irrational. Any input is accepted and welcomed, whether it’s rational or not is much less important. The input isn’t filtered by the conscious but rather the unconscious.</p><p>As a person’s level of consciousness rises, their ability to connect irrational, spiritual input with the rational ‘domain’ increases along with it.</p><p>So the role of the unconscious in determining what a being experiences grows as they get closer to enlightenment.</p><p>The actual state of enlightenment, what distinguishes it from unenlightened state, is conscious. You either identifying with your body/mind/awareness or you don’t, there’s no way to subconsciously not-identify.</p><p>The <i>knowledge</i> about whether one is enlightened or not is independent of their actual state, i.e. people can be enlightened without knowing it, and people who know they’re enlightened can be mistaken. Nothing about enlightenment magically dispels ignorance.</p><p>Another note: the subconscious tends to take the shape of whatever it’s believed to be. One can form the belief that their subconscious is God and infallible. This may sound like mind-identification but it’s actually a form of surrender. It’s the holding on of the conscious as primary driver of experience that keeps one from non-duality. Surrendering to the subconscious is something that will happen as one grows spiritually. And the subconscious will rise to meet the role placed in front of it.</p>
