---
layout: post
title: What if Christianity is a savior myth invented by the Roman ruling class to quell uprisings of Messianic Judaism and Jesus is a provable literary invention?
    
        
    
http:&#47;&#47;www.jesusneverexisted.com
date: 2018-04-19
---

<p>Who cares? Watch this video before reading the rest of my argument.</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/OqkHPsY8p84?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="OqkHPsY8p84" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/OqkHPsY8p84/0.jpg');"></div><p>Look, half of the Bible is allegorical anyway. It says the world is flat and that giant sea monsters guard the edges of the world. It says that beyond the sky between heaven is a solid firmament and that there’s more water beyond it, in which an island called Heaven exists that God lives on.</p><p>The Jesus that Christians believe in is assuredly not the historical Jesus. So what? In the first place, they didn’t use language back then the same way we did. They had no idea about science or logic or rigor. If they heard a story about a big flood and then learned later that giant monsters roamed the Earth and God sent a meteor to clear them away, they’d be like, “oh okay, let’s edit a few things in our stories.”</p><p>They passed the old stories around because they liked them. They were told over and over and over again until they found it worthwhile to commit them to paper. People <b>wanted</b> to believe them. It’s the same way then as it is now. They want to believe it because life without belief just kinda sucks after awhile. Even atheists tend to all come back to stories and storytelling in the end.</p><p>They want to believe in Jesus because Jesus is a great thing to believe in. Arguing over the exact nature of Jesus is way more fun than harvesting a few more yams.</p><p>Look, you watch movies right? Do you like to consider the deeper ideas that certain movies explore? People waste untold numbers of hours on deconstructing films and other stories. One of the most important tools in doing this is the ability to think <i>in-universe</i>. Pretend like you’re Batman and ask yourself why you don’t just kill the Joker. Is your answer “because I’m not Batman and Batman’s a fictional character and stop being stupid”?</p><p>No, to properly analyze a story, you have to consider the world in the story to be totally, 100% real. This is the exact same thing people do with faith and religion. They flip a little switch in their brain and let the story and world overtake them. You asking them to flip it back is like answering an in-universe question with a stupid logical one. It’s ugly, boring, and doesn’t say anything useful, worthwhile, or fun.</p>
