---
layout: post
title: Why is Zen Buddhism hard to understand?
date: 2018-05-01
---

<p>I disagree that Zen Buddhism is particularly hard to understand. In fact, I think it’s quite easy, compared to other forms of Buddhism, and far easier than any Western religion.</p><p>The main thing that makes it easy is that it tosses history, tradition, and culture out the window. You really need to have a sense of history to really understand Christianity, but that’s only going to get in the way if you want to grasp Zen. So the barrier to entry is pretty much nonexistent. Zen starts and ends with the idea of “beginner’s mind.” Christianity starts with the idea that we’re all sinners and ends with Jesus, covering a <b>lot</b> of ground in the interim.</p><p>This is pretty much why most people in the West think about Buddhism primarily in terms of Zen.</p><p>Why then do people think it’s hard? Well, because most people never think really deeply about anything, much less things of a spiritual or transcendent bent. Zen is often their very first introduction to something deeper than they are. When you start practicing Zen, you’re immediately thrown out of the Zen mindset and have to claw your way back. As soon as you think you have a hold on it, something new arises and you’re again thrown out of the mindset. When you think you have a hold on that, you realize that the idea of ‘having a hold on something’ is itself holding you back.</p><p>This is depth, an endless pool you can’t hope to get to the bottom of if you kept swimming your whole life. Zen is but one way to experience it. For me, Zen is a great approach to try when you feel stuck. But I would never identify with anything that demands my identity, something I can never master. And you can never master Zen.</p>
