---
layout: post
title: Does the fact that Noah&#39;s Ark is entirely implausible demean every other story in the Bible to you, even if they sound possible?
date: 2018-04-17
---

<p>Why in the world would it? You’re looking at a book that claims that God made Adam out of dirt and Eve out of one of Adam’s ribs. When Jesus ascended into Heaven, God didn’t specify how he punched through the firmament between the two worlds.</p><p>So what? Religious myth is worth reading and understanding anyway. Just ignore that part and dive instead into the allegorical content. For me, the story of Noah illustrates some hard truths about the world. God screwed it up the first time. That’s the only way you can really interpret it. He gave it another go, but rather than go through all the work of making another man and woman, He just took the cream of the first crop.</p><p>It wasn’t the animals God was trying to get rid of, it was the people. Did it fix anything? Heck no. It’s hard to imagine people before the flood as being even more wicked than Noah’s descendants. No, God eventually realized He had to go about the task of making man a different way. Creation is harder than He thought it would be.</p><p>He started getting more deeply involved in the lives of His chosen people. That’s what you have to do. You can’t just wipe the slate clean or command from on high. God tried giving us perfection, then He tried giving commands. When both of those failed, He tried just wiping the slate clean and making humanity descend from one just man. None of it worked. It’s a poignant commentary on the nature of mankind.</p>
