---
layout: post
title: Can mystics explain their beliefs in a way that skeptics can understand?
date: 2018-06-18
---

<p>Sure, they can explain their <i>surface</i> beliefs well enough for understanding. I’ve been at that game for fifteen years.</p><p>What’s difficult to convey is <i>why</i> I feel that way. I’ll take a stab at answering why and hope it’s not too abstract.</p><p>Mystic understanding relies on the axiom that <i>any</i> experience is going to convey <i>some</i> form of truth. If you’re not familiar with the term axiom, it means something you take as true and build off of without trying too hard to justify it.</p><p>So my mystical experiences are going to convey some kind of truth to me. How do I work out what that truth is? Well, you need to integrate and think carefully about those experiences. If I meet Lucifer in trance, I have to figure out what that means. That involves not just trying to understand <i>what</i> it was that I just met, but also <i>why</i> it was that I met Lucifer specifically.</p><p>While I’m busy integrating one spiritual experience, my mind doesn’t really wait for me to catch up. When it’s ready, I have another spiritual experience.</p><p>Spiritual experience is by design <i>dense</i> and hard to understand. But there’s an underlying logic to it that you learn how to move through the longer and more you do it. I had my first mystical experience when I was like 19 and part of a Wiccan coven. 15 years later and I’m still nowhere close to mastering it. There’s always something new to dive into.</p><p>The spiritual landscape has a multitude of dimensions that you need to think about carefully in order to understand them. And it blends into your normal life in order to help clarify things.</p><p>Once you’ve been doing it long enough, the idea that you can go back, to deal in a purely rational frame, well it just feels like <i>slumming it</i>. The spiritual world is just so much <b>fun</b>.</p>
