---
layout: post
title: What is the best refutation of hard determinism, if one exists?
date: 2018-08-14
---

<p>When you say, “hard determinism” what I think of is a cluster of ideas that I refer to as the “philosophical tarpit.” This tarpit includes nihilism, solipsism, materialism, and, most lately, positivism. Attempts by myself to plumb deeper than positivism don’t yield any fruit, positivism appears to be the bottom of the well when it comes to this particular philosophical theme.</p><p>Positivism is the belief that only information derived from sensory experience, plus reason and logic, can form the basis for any kind of knowledge. It would be more involved than is appropriate for this question to debunk positivism here. But I will say that it’s the same kind of thought that devolves into positivism that also creates weird concepts like the p-zombie.</p><p>The p-zombie is a hypothetical creature that is identical to a normal human, except it lacks conscious experience, qualia, or subjective experience. It is the kind of concept that can only originate in the mind of someone who deeply wants to find a philosophical basis for nihilism but can’t find a way to completely dispel things like spirituality and theism from academic consideration. Or someone looking for a tongue-in-cheek way of poking professional fun at academic nihilists.</p><p>“Hard” determinism is just one more attempt to rip the spiritual out of academic consideration. There’s nothing particularly wrong with determinism, which is well-understood from a physical sciences standpoint, but fails when it’s applied to the murky domains of the human mind. Hard determinism seeks to apply scientific determinism even to the mind, and the more one thinks about it, the more the ‘pattern’ seems to also apply to nihilism and solipsism.</p><p>It’s just silly, tail wagging the dog type stuff. People’s realities are determined by how their minds work, not the physical rules of this universe. There can be a different set of rules that the physical world vs. the mind use. It’s not exactly comforting for the materialist mind to contemplate this, but we’re coming to understand that middle ground more and more over time.</p>
