---
layout: post
title: What is the most respectful way to respond to someone who is telling you something religious when you&#39;re an atheist?
date: 2018-12-30
---

<p>The way you respect someone’s religion is the same way you respect everything else, you just don’t attack it. If I told you aliens abducted me in my sleep, you respect that experience by not telling me that there’s no such thing as aliens. Just don’t touch it.</p><p>If the topic turns somewhere you don’t want to have a discussion about, simply change the topic of discussion. If you want to stay on the topic of discussion, while still being respectful, then you need to learn the magic art of tact. I don’t know if you have kids or nephews or whatever, but the tradition of Santa Claus is how this is commonly taught to people in the West.</p><p>Play in the land of make believe. Ask me what the aliens did to me while I was being abducted. Get curious about why people feel the way they feel. If someone quotes scripture, you don’t have to deal with whether you believe in God or not to be curious about what scripture means to this other person. Your beliefs, or lack thereof, don’t have to play a role in the conversation.</p><p>Respect is about not imposing your point of view on someone else. Talking about something is not imposing a point of view. You can just talk about it.</p><p>Another example. Many people believe that God punishes sinners. I believe in God, but I don’t believe he’s in the punishment business, he’s in the teaching business. Just saying. But if I were an atheist and I had some believer trying to get me to come to Jesus or whatever, as I was when I was a teenager, I’d do what I did back then, I’d try to see if they wanted to have the atheism/theism debate and if they didn’t, just say I don’t want to talk about it. Nothing disrespectful about that.</p>
