---
layout: post
title: Is evil as eternal as God? Or does it have a beginning and an end?
date: 2018-08-12
---

<p>Evil begins and ends with us. It doesn’t come from God, it’s not some eternal principle.</p><p>People think God is a monster because God commanded people to do things that we consider evil. First of all God’s conception and experience of things is different than ours. God chooses what happens to people after they die. If infants die before maturing, then God can simply put them in new human bodies if He wishes. We don’t have that option, so our morality is necessarily different from God’s.</p><p>Do you play video games? Do you waste time thinking about all the “bad guys” you slaughter while you’re playing them? You’re a monster! Killing all those innocent characters. How do you escape that moral conundrum? Video game characters aren’t sentient, they don’t have experience to take away. They’re programmed.</p><p>Sure bud, keep telling yourself that. The cow you ate for dinner last night would probably have an objection to your justifications. Or pig. Or plant. For you to live, other living things have to die, the only way to stop that is to stop existing. But that won’t stop the slaughter, that will just end your moral involvement. Can you be blamed for evil things that didn’t involve you? That’s what people pin on God.</p><p>Let’s take another tack. Have you ever had a friend, who, every time you ever had to interact with them, they ended up bringing some kind of chaos into your life? You try to wonder what it is you’re doing wrong, but the inescapable conclusion is that this person <b>creates</b> chaos wherever they go. There’s really nothing you can do to stop this person from making all this trouble for themselves and those around them.</p><p>That’s what evil’s like. A problem that begins and ends with human selfishness. Your friend’s chaos is just one version of this selfishness. God didn’t make that problem out of nothing. We did.</p>
