---
layout: post
title: Are angels real?
date: 2018-09-04
---

<p>Like everything spiritual, if you don’t put in the time and the effort, they won’t ever be real. They assume reality to the extent that you put energy into them.</p><p>Spiritual energy is just mental energy, and that energy is <i>malleable</i>. It takes any form you care to put it in. If that form is angels, then you’re interacting with angels. If it’s God, then you’re interacting with God. Any deity or entity is simply a form for energy. You’re <i>personifying</i> the energy, encouraging it to take the form of something you can interact with.</p><p>The energy did not have a form, or, more precisely, it didn’t have a form that you could see and interact with, until you decided to work with it.</p><p>Energy proceeds according to the beliefs of the people doing the forming. You can’t make anyone else believe in the things you believe, but spiritual beliefs are at their most powerful when they’re shared. Angels are ancient archetypes, thousands of years old. People know what an angel is, it’s a very well-trodden spiritual form.</p><p>Spiritual energy proceeds from you and whoever you’re sharing with into the form that you both believe in. The form then starts to animate and acquire an energy of its own. External consciousness may project into the form, this is how it assumes personality when you’re interacting with it.</p><p>Because you can only interact with non-physical entities directly in mind, the entity uses the forms of your mind to take shape and give voice. Everything looks and feels vaguely familiar, this can turn off those looking for ‘pure’ experiences. But as you keep doing it, and so build a personal relationship with the angel you’re ‘calling’, then it’s own personality and form will start to reflect itself rather than your mental forms.</p><p>The problems with spirituality always flow from us, never from the spiritual world. It works, and can work for you, you just need to approach it properly.</p>
