---
layout: post
title: Why did she reject me and then get upset when I stopped wanting to flirt with her and be really close? (I still wanted to be close, but just on the level of good friends).
date: 2018-07-26
---

<p>To piggyback on <a href="/profile/Vivian-Bee-2">Vivian Bae’</a>s excellent answer, if you want to stay friends with her, you’re going to need to find a way to satisfy her need for sexual validation without getting the validation you need in return. If it makes you feel any better, this inherent inequality was set up by nature and not us.</p><p>I went through all this with a really good friend of mine. The approach I took was to slowly wean her off of all the things she’d become dependent on from me. The guide I used was, “if doing this thing for her makes me feel like I’m being taken advantage of, then I’ll do it this one time and figure out how to say no to her the next,” and to make sure I’m communicating what I’m doing and why.</p><p>I used to buy all kinds of crap for this friend, now it’s cut back to a single lunch every week. I used to spend all kinds of time with her, now she knows not to ask me to spend any in-person time with her during the week. I used to give her massages which she was hooked on, now she’s lucky if she can find a reason to touch me. Flirting is strictly done verbally now.</p><p>This, sadly, is what you’re in for if you want to keep a friendship with someone that you also have a romantic connection with. You can’t just stop doing things you used to do without it causing a big fuss. But you <i>can</i> slowly pull it back and maintain the friendship.</p><p>It’s up to you to decide whether all this effort is worth it. With my friend, she’s the only romantic connection I’ve ever really been able to keep around. I’ve just started with another girl and she’s not really working out yet romantically either, so I’m in the process of setting up boundaries.</p><p>One of those boundaries I set up is to stop reaching out. She must call or text me if she wants some of my attention. Both of the aforementioned female friends have come to terms with this. The new girl texts me once or twice a week and we chat for a few minutes and maybe set up a date. My good friend calls me once a day. It’s the price I exact from girls that expect me to put out romantic energy without getting what I want in return.</p>
