---
layout: post
title: Assuming Hell is real, do the people in it continue to sin, or are they unable to do so?
date: 2018-06-04
---

<p>Sin doesn’t have any meaning outside worldly affairs. What makes something sinful isn’t really so much what God thinks of your actions, but rather what the <i>results</i> of those actions are. In the Bible, people sin against each other, and they also sin against God. Sinning against another means exactly what you think it means, but sinning against God means you’re going against His plan. He wanted you to do a certain thing a certain way, and you decided to do something different.</p><p>It matters because now God has to come up with a new plan. God’s omnipotent, but His actions are still constrained in a very important way. He wants to preserve, as much as possible, peoples’ free wills. When He gives you a command, this is the plan of action that has the least impact on other people around. The distinction may not matter much to you but it matters enough to God to punish people for affecting the balance.</p><p>The Seven Deadly Sins are deadly because they are small sins that lead to greater ones. If you don’t check them, they’ll eventually take hold of your brain and you’ll eventually start committing more grave sins. When you go to Hell, a lot of the experience there involves retraining you, as one might train a dog, that sins are bad.</p><p>For example, you could get tempted into lust by a demon, then shown immediately how that temptation was a much worse choice than just holding steady and resisting. Christian thematics often involves this sort of storytelling, where “deals with the devil” turn sour and make it much much worse on the person who made the deal.</p><p>But there aren’t any stakes in Hell for others, the only one bearing the consequences of your weakness is you. So you aren’t committing any sin that needs to be punished outside of the normal consequences of your actions.</p>
