---
layout: post
title: Do you believe the Jews are actually God&#39;s chosen people?
date: 2018-07-28
---

<p>Sure, why not?</p><p>Think about why <i>you</i> choose things. What reason did you use to choose them for? Did it stop you from choosing something else of that type for something else?</p><p>I literally actually believe in God. I literally, actually believe that He chose the Jews. To be the embodiment of His will and desire. If anybody lives as <b>God would want them to live</b>, it’s the Jews. I learn more about them all the time. Jewishness is great. I’m happy they’re there, and not being Jewish doesn’t make me not an admirer of their culture or way of life. And being an admirer of their culture and way of life does not make me want to be Jewish.</p><p>That all said, I’m not Jewish, and I have no desire to actually become Jewish. To speak from a meta-religious perspective, Judaism is not all that interested in converts. It takes decades to build up those habits and mindsets. You will never become a perfect Jew.</p><p>The way my life works, if I can’t instantly operate at the <i>state of the art</i> of a particular idea, mindset, or pursuit, then my willingness to even get started is practically zero. I <b>already</b> have an identity that is really amazing all by itself. I’m maybe one of a handful of people in the whole entire world that isn’t Jewish but can actually understand and appreciate Jewishness.</p><p>No, my identity is enough for me. I don’t need to keep adding to it in order to feel like I have enough. Believing that Jews are chosen by God doesn’t interfere with my belief that God also chose <b>me</b> for some particular purpose, a purpose I’m always learning more about.</p>
