---
layout: post
title: Can reality exist without a mind?
date: 2018-09-02
---

<p>Questions like this are great points at which to dive into the difference between reality and existence. What does it mean for something to be real but not exist? And what does it mean for something to exist but not be real?</p><p>After much meditation on the subject, my understanding is that existence is predicated on <i>interaction</i>, two things that exist interact somehow with each other. This generally happens on a <i>plane</i>, Harry Potter interacts with Hermione in the literary plane of the JK Rowling books. Therefore Harry Potter and Hermione exist within that context.</p><p>The literary plane is <i>non-material</i>, and is just one of countless non-material planes that things can exist in. If I stand up on a stage with another actor, and we improvise a scene together, then that scene springs into existence, conjuring up all kinds of interesting things that literally didn’t exist before we started.</p><p>The word reality, on the other hand, is best used to refer to a <i>mental</i> representation of a state of affairs. The reality of Quora is such that unless you have a lot of followers, you just won’t get a lot of views on your answers. A reality brings together multiple planes of existence to create a <i>solidity</i> that our conscious, intelligent minds can operate in and with.</p><p>When we say that demons aren’t real, what we’re stating is that a significant portion of the varied planes of existence that construct the reality of demons and demonic possession exists solely in a person’s mind. This isn’t normally a problem, a great deal of our personal realities are indeed constructed by and only exist in one’s mind.</p><p>The problem is when someone tries to impose their personal beliefs on someone else. This of necessity generates a demand for a rationalization, for reasoning concerning why I should believe in the reality that you believe in, that I should accept your non-material planes as material and relevant. When acceptable rationalization can’t be made, the mind doesn’t accept the bundle of existential planes and the things in those planes as real.</p><p>Things can have varying degrees of reality. When I stand up on stage with a buddy and improvise a scene, then the scene exists, and since other people can witness it, it assumes a certain degree of reality. But it can’t be considered fully real, as it’ll disappear the second we end the scene.</p><p>As such, things can have varying degrees of existence. The degree to which things are separate and interact determines just how present something is. If the thing is fuzzy, indeterminate, on its plane of existence, or it does little in the way of interacting with other things on its plane, it has less existence.</p><p>So to answer your question, while the words have different senses in which people use them, in my framing, it’s mind that turns existence into reality. We take disparate existential planes and bring them together in meaningful ways, creating little realities that we then live in and by. So no, reality without mind is just existence. Interaction without meaning.</p>
