---
layout: post
title: Were there fewer atheists in the past because religion had more importance?
date: 2018-04-18
---

<p>Yes. There was a point in time where the word “atheism” <i>didn’t even have a meaning</i>. Trying to explain what atheism was to a 13th century Roman would have been met with utter confusion.</p><p>As soon as you do manage to make headway, they would shut down the discussion, immediately accuse you of spreading idolatry or heresy, and drag you before the local religious authority so they could deal with you. They would do their best to get you to shut the heck up and then watch you very closely for the next few years to make sure you don’t try spreading your useless garbage again.</p><p>This is because you were born into a faith, and while you could cease practicing that faith the way your fellow villagers did, actually and openly declaring yourself to not be of the faith was a capital offense. Nobody but your immediate family cared about your personal relationship with your creed, but <b>everybody</b> cared if you started spreading around antisocial ideas.</p><p>They called it <i>apostasy,</i> the rejection of your own faith in order to preach false gods. If you moved from another village and had a creed or beliefs from that village, you were most often tolerated, though if you wanted to marry into the village, you would have been expected to convert.</p><p>Reason is people were a lot more social, and talked a lot more, and everyone was expected to get along on matters of belief. When everyone around you believed that if you ate pork, you were putting your immortal soul in danger, then it’s really upsetting to people if you ate pork in front of them.</p><p>Think about a particularly religious family member you might have. Can you think about something you could say that would really upset them? Take that times 100 and you have medieval society.</p>
