---
layout: post
title: Why do atheists deny a god when the chances of everything coming to be are infinitesimally small, and pretty much impossible when it comes to matter coming from nothing? I believe in god.
date: 2018-02-20
---

<p>You’re mistaking the process by which belief is arrived at as a rational process. It isn’t.</p><p>As far as I’ve been able to determine, whether a person believes in any form of ‘supernaturalism’ or not, comes down to early experience. For example, I was pushed towards atheism as a kid because I never got any solid, rational answers for, say, why Santa Clause’s handwriting was the same as Mom’s.</p><p>Those early experiences start compounding in your teens when you’re really trying to find yourself. I started seeking out magazines and books that “resonated” with me, and before you know it, I’d formed a rock-solid belief in atheism, which competed with my desire to <i>understand</i> spirituality all my life.</p><p>It was all too easy for me to work out that Mom was the one buying the gifts under the tree as Santa Clause. And since Santa Clause is easier for the young mind to relate to than God or Jesus, it’s just too easy to just equate one with the other and all of a sudden, I’m an atheist.</p><p>‘Course, years later, I’m watching <i>Polar Express</i> and just breaking out into tears over the lavish myth-making that movie did, and wishing I could have known all those years ago what Christmas <b>really</b> was about.</p><p>No, belief is not rational. Belief is the human desire to feel certain rather than uncertain about “the way the world works.” And materialism is just easier for the mind to grasp than spiritual frames. At least, is has been for the last 20 years or so.</p><p>We underestimate the effect culture plays in all this. If you don’t <b>know</b> any other options, then you’re going to just fall back on what you’ve been taught. This is how religion has propagated through antiquity to now. There just wasn’t this magical information wonderland where anyone can go to hear people argue convincingly about whatever they believe in.</p><p>And atheists have taken over the Internet. So anyone who spends a lot of time on the Internet is going to get pushed to atheism.</p>
