---
layout: post
title: What is the meaning of spiritual enlightenment, and why do few people have this? Why not all?
date: 2018-02-19
---

<p>To understand enlightenment you must first understand why reincarnation didn’t take root in the West.</p><p>Many many people across Europe believed in reincarnation. The Celts taught it. The Ancient Greeks debated it. The great mystery traditions of the Germanic tribes variously believed in it. Even the Jews have segments that believe in it.</p><p>So why do the majority of Western monotheists reject it? In a word, Jesus.</p><p>Jesus brought a radically new understanding to the spiritual realm. He saw, and demanded of people, that you do it all in <b>one</b> trip around the block. After he was dead and gone, and his followers tasked to create a religion, they came up with this core belief in <i>salvation</i>. Salvation is deliverance from all that is bad in the world. If you but turned to Jesus, he could heal your sickness, and bring peace and prosperity to your life. If you kept turning to Jesus, then after you died he would absolve you of your remaining sin and welcome you into Heaven.</p><p>There was simply no room for reincarnation in the face of Jesus. Christians didn’t trust mysticism, they didn’t trust passivity. They also had much less pluralistic cultures at the time. So this demand, this exhortation, of believers to not make excuses, to not punt their mistakes on to weird ideas like karma and reincarnation, to turn to Jesus, so that he may deliver you from sin, and then go forth and do great things <b>in this life</b>, became the order of the day.</p><p>It was a unique and powerful idea, the energy of which was captured by the Jews, who wound up rejecting Jesus, and the Muslims, who went in a different direction with it. But it didn’t spread much further because it took the Christians some 600 years to start proselytising to the East in force.</p><p>Eastern religion is much more cyclical, much less immediate. Nobody in Buddhism expected to reach enlightenment in their lifetimes, as opposed to Christianity where you were saved immediately and kept being saved throughout your life. And back when it was dreamed up, the process to reach enlightenment was all but out of reach to most people. There were isolated monasteries that kept the traditions alive but most everyone had things to do in their lives, suddenly taking years off to achieve enlightenment just wasn’t possible.</p><p>And the beliefs themselves often discouraged you, taking many lifetimes by definition. You could only get to a certain point before nobody would or could help you out anymore. Easy son, you’re not the Buddha, relax, lead a meditation session. Good things come to those who wait.</p><p>So when the teachings of Ramana Maharshi were brought over to the West as what’s now called <i>Neo-Advaita</i> in the grand tradition of the New Age, obviously American go-getters weren’t going to be satisfied with multiple lifetimes needed to remove the fetters. They want it <b>now</b>. But they’ve already rejected the one tradition that could do it for them <b>now</b>.</p><p>So they cobble together new traditions out of old materials that attempt to provide them the immediacy they demand, that’s also not Jesus.</p>
