---
layout: post
title: Why does one need spirituality in life?
date: 2018-01-23
---

<p>Spirituality is important because it provides a very useful inner backstop to uncertainty. With it, existential angst can be relieved with a bit of daydreaming, without it, you’re looking at extended bouts of depression.</p><p>If something happens to you and you don’t know why, you can simply make up a reason and your mind will go out of its way to make that reason <b>true</b>. It’ll give you all kinds of evidence. It will reorder the world to fit with your expectations of it. Doesn’t really matter whether it’s wrong or not. Being <i>wrong</i> is much, much more preferable to <i>not having an answer at all</i>.</p><p>You can move forward with a wrong answer, let the world tell you how you were wrong. You can’t move forward when you have no answer. You’re stuck in limbo-land.</p><p>This is why atheists are often so darned <i>gung-ho</i> with their insistence that God doesn’t exist and spirituality is bunk. They took the common universal need for certainty in life and just wrapped an atheistic dogma around it, just like believers do. It makes it ever more amusing when they insist up and down that they don’t believe in anything, and take great pains to separate supernatural beliefs from other kinds of belief.</p><p>The wiser ones don’t do this, and are more able to see commonalities with believers.</p><p>Since this is a universal human need, everybody seeks out their own approach to the ‘dealing with uncertainty’ problem. Most materialistically-minded people do this through books, comic books, movies, and the like.</p><p>Spirituality deals with far more than just metaphysical uncertainty. You can look at Quora for copious examples of the things people are anxious about. What did that boy mean when he did that thing? Spirituality, through moral prescriptions, intends to deal with all this by relating morals to deity figures.</p><p>Spirituality, through religion, has played this role for as long as humans have been sentient. It is only recently that it has become possible to separate aspects of spirituality from the root religion. You can now have a secular morality, secular scripture, (Star Wars) secular beliefs, (capitalism) secular theology, (science) and so on.</p><p>But it all comes back full circle in the end. Narrative fiction, poetry, storytelling, myth and legend has been employed all throughout history to encode universal ideas and transmit them to future generations. The idea of religion, the idea of spirituality, is just how humans create and maintain order, the elements are present whether or not there’s a belief in a supernatural entity.</p>
