---
layout: post
title: What&#39;s the difference between metaphysical and spiritual?
date: 2018-10-25
---

<p>Spirituality involves the creation of a certain kind of reality, what we call <i>spiritual reality</i>. Interacting with these elements, observing the self through them, this is the point of spirituality. It’s a giant mirror with which to observe one’s self.</p><p>Metaphysics goes deeper than the self. It concerns itself with questions like, “what does it mean to exist? Are there categories of existence?” Metaphysics applies to spiritual reality just as it does to this reality.</p><p>A spiritual inquiry can become a metaphysical inquiry, if one goes deep enough. I used to interact with things that called themselves angels, demons, and just random undifferentiated non-physical entities. How might these things actually exist?</p><p>If I simply kept my focus on the surface, taking my interaction with them at face value, then I’d be keeping it purely spiritual. I had a friend who I would explore with that chose to do just this. Benefit is that it’s more fun. Downside is that you have to avoid asking certain questions if you want it to keep being fun.</p><p>So I’d start asking ‘meta-spiritual’ questions. <i>How</i> did my experiences actually work? What precisely was it that I was communicating with. Obviously there’s a mental component, but is it all in the mind? How might I tell?</p><p>After enough time doing this, the answers to the questions would shade into the everyday. How does anybody know anything? The skeptical approach eventually just doesn’t work anymore once you expand your vision far enough.</p><p>What does it mean to exist? The skeptic denies that the question has worth. But for someone whose dived deep enough into spirituality it’s the <i>only question that is at all worth asking</i> and every meaningful question winds up being a different way of asking what it means to exist.</p><p>That’s metaphysics.</p>
