---
layout: post
title: If the Biblical God is omnipotent and all-loving; why did he need to sacrifice Jesus at all? If the death of Jesus is required for salvation, then doesn&#39;t that mean the Biblical God was prevented from being omnipotent in giving salvation to people?
date: 2018-06-22
---

<p>I was halfway into a dissection of the nature of myth, but then I realized that the question needs to be answered from inside the perspective of Christianity and not outside of it.</p><p>You can’t prevent God from being omnipotent. When you’re omnipotent, your choices are constrained only by your desires, not by actual events. God could have <i>chosen</i> to give salvation to everyone. But that defeats the whole purpose of making us in the first place.</p><p>The story of Jesus sits within the overall narrative of Abrahamic cosmology. Genesis is the foundation, and the stories there lay bare God’s motivations in creating humanity and what His overall plan for us is.</p><p>Just giving us salvation isn’t part of that plan. The theological study of salvation is called <i>soteriology</i>, and it’s something Christians and Jews have debated the finer points of for thousands of years.</p><p>But the underlying gist of the matter is that we’re flawed, but to remove our flaws would be to remove our humanity. God’s not interested in creating more of Himself. God wants us to live better, to master our domain, to master the wisdom that we stole when we ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.</p><p>God does many many things in the name of convincing us to do that. Sending Jesus to us is just one of the many. But it has to be a convincing process, not a forcing process, because otherwise there’s no real point.</p>
