---
layout: post
title: Is your job so good you&#39;d do it for free? If so, what do you do?
date: 2018-01-22
---

<p>No job is that good. Because then they wouldn’t call it a job. Even rock stars have to get paid, otherwise they’re not really rock stars, are they? Gotta have the money to go with the fame.</p><p>But if I wasn’t being paid to code, I’d do it on my off time. I like web development because I find it incredibly interesting and often really close to the business. When I was doing e-commerce, I got a unique perspective on the running of a ‘normal’ business.</p><p>Coding, once you’ve been doing it long enough, kinda feels like math. You get the feeling like you’re working on universal, timeless things. Sure, the code itself comes and goes, but the techniques, the styles, the domains, these things are have an old, classic relevance. It’s a neat mixture of the classic and the fashionable.</p><p>And programming rewards cleverness. As you get better at it you also get faster. Eventually you run out of given work to do, so you pick up side work. You can run out of that too. Then you can have long stretches at your job where there’s nothing to do. At my last job towards the end it could be weeks before I pushed code.</p><p>But I still wouldn’t have done it for free. There’s an opportunity cost to actually going into the office that needs to be compensated for. There’s a lifestyle that needs to be maintained.</p><p>Before I got into coding as a career, I had the thought when I was doing my own coding that, “man, I wish I worked on something that <i>mattered</i>.” It suddenly dawned on me that I wanted a career in software development.</p><p>Been living the dream ever since.</p>
