---
layout: post
title: What do you do, when your boss does not recognize your efforts and give away all perks to other resources who actually performed lesser than me?
date: 2018-03-16
---

<p>Find another job. It's impossible to grow in a position where you don't have a good working relationship with your boss.</p><p>But since you're probably not prepared to do that yet, here are a few approaches you can take to try to fix the situation.</p><p>You can try approaching your boss and confronting them about the issues you're seeing. What you're looking for in their answer is <i>acknowledgement</i>. If you're boss is willing to admit that there is a problem, then that is the first step to a resolution.</p><p>If they do not acknowledge your issue, then you need to wrap your mind around the fact that your boss does not have your best interests in mind and that they do not deserve your loyalty.</p><p>The next step is to have a conversation with your boss's boss. Keep it light, don't let it turn into a gripe-fest. Give the short elevator pitch and see if you get any validation there.</p><p>Your boss's boss is as high as you can go without it getting dangerous, you run the rush of getting fired or becoming a pariah in your company, well, more of a pariah than you already are, if you bring anything less than an extremely serious problem to upper management.</p><p>But you should feel free to at least get a feel for what your superiors are feeling and the best way to do that is a direct confrontation. Don't accuse them of anything, keep it civil. You just want to find out what they're thinking.</p><p>That all said, if you're feeling disrespected and unwanted, you're probably not imagining it. The best resolution is another job.</p>
