---
layout: post
title: How true is this quote? &quot;When you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it.”
date: 2018-04-27
---

<p>This is an example of magical thinking. There’s nothing particularly wrong with magical thinking, so long as you know how magic works.</p><p>In order for magic to work for you, four conditions have to be met. In order for it to work <b>well</b> for you, a fifth condition must be met.</p><p>First, you have to either believe in magic, or be able to suspend your disbelief long enough to actually take it seriously. It’s very rare for a total materialist skeptic to demand something from the universe and have the universe play ball. I’m not saying it doesn’t or can’t happen, but generally the universe knows you better than you do.</p><p>Second, your desired outcome must fit <i>you</i>. If you’ve spent your whole life programming computers, wanting the universe to conspire to make you a professional boxer likely isn’t in the cards.</p><p>Third, your desired outcome must fit <i>the universe</i>. The universe is not going to conspire to make a million dollars appear in the shoebox in your closet, even if it’s perfectly willing to make you a millionaire some other way. This is a contrived example, but you’d be surprised how easy it is to ask the universe for something that it can’t give you.</p><p>Fitting in with the third condition that trips a lot of people up is that the universe preserves people’s free will against this sort of thing. So you can’t just ask the universe for that hot babe and expect it to just happen. Ask the hot babe instead. Personally when I want someone I’ll ask for opportunities to interact rather than for a particular outcome. The universe is more than happy to facilitate an interaction.</p><p>The fourth condition is that it has to move your personal evolution forward. This is likely true if you’re asking for it, but it can not be true if you’re not being sufficiently ambitious. So if you ask the universe for $20, the the universe might provide it, but if you just keep asking for $20 all the time, eventually the universe will be like, “yeah, tired of doing that, try something else.” Like maybe a job so you don’t have to keep asking for handouts. It provided the $20 the first time just to prove it was possible. Now you need to take charge of your evolution as a user of magick. A good way to think about this is, if the universe doesn’t think you’re learning, it won’t do your bidding.</p><p>The final condition that you need to adhere to if you don’t want magick to mess up your life is to make sure your intentions are always benevolent. You can ask for lessons to help you learn if you are unsure about a specific point. But if you’re not getting something and you’re not sure why, think carefully about what your real intentions are and maybe try reformulating your wish. You can always ask some divine agency to mediate your wish. Jesus is great for this. Note that this is just praying.</p><p>But if you really want to walk on the dark side, yes, the universe will conspire to make your dark wishes come true if you’re particularly intent on it. Don’t expect it to end well.</p>
