---
layout: post
title: Why is it so painful to see that people are not spiritually awakened and are living in an illusion, believing that is it?
date: 2018-07-30
---

<p>This is an ego question and the answer lies in seeking out more maturity and wisdom.</p><p>It takes <i>effort</i> to achieve an awakening. You spend lots of time learning and growing and taking in a new reality. Other people won’t necessarily want to spend that same time and effort. In fact, if you think about it, even other seekers aren’t going to want to spend the same amount time doing the same things that you did.</p><p>It is our birthright to surpass our forebears. I still remember my father almost tearfully admitting to me that he’s finally accepted the fact that I’m smarter than him. When I related that story to my mom she reeled even harder than I did.</p><p>We are smarter than our parents, our kids will be smarter than us. It is the way of the world. What older people like our parents can develop is <i>wisdom</i>. My mom is far wiser than I and will probably remain so for the rest of both of our lives. Not all old people develop wisdom but the ones that do earn a way of looking at the world that’s as timeless as it is effective.</p><p>Spiritual awakening opens up a new domain of understanding. That domain of understanding is orthogonal to all other types of understanding. What you learn as a result of one does not invalidate other kinds of knowledge or wisdom.</p><p>Spiritual awakening provides some clarity, but it doesn’t dispel illusion. You’re still laboring under illusion like everyone else. Maybe a little bit less of it. The difference between you and others looms large in your mind because you don’t yet have the wisdom to comprehend that while it seems large, it’s actually not all that big, no matter how big and dramatic it feels to you right now.</p>
