---
layout: post
title: Why is God incapable of fixing this terrible world?
date: 2018-04-05
---

<p>To understand God’s plan you first need to understand that life is meaningful for everybody. All living things have the potential for growth and change. Our choices and the consequences of those choices drive that growth. Life is as meaningful for you as it is for all those starving Africans that atheists love to cite as the primary problem of theodicy.</p><p>The second thing you need to understand is that we humans can only see a tiny part of the picture. Catholic theology rests on a teetering precipice of events that start with the literal belief that Jesus’s body rose into heaven forty days after he rose from the dead. It proceeds through martyred saints whose dead bodies just refuse to decay because Jesus, finally landing in a great tribulation where most of the human race dies before Jesus comes back down to Earth and leads whoever’s left into Heaven. This is all incredibly rich and dense, and people have been analyzing it with great seriousness for over a thousand years.</p><p>But even if all of it is true, that can’t be all there is to the picture. We look at the history we have available and try to learn from it. But you’re always going to be wrong in ways you never even considered. Christians eschew belief in reincarnation, but that doesn’t mean that people can’t reincarnate while Christianity remains true. If you look at the history of <i>why</i> Christians don’t believe in it, you’ll see that it’s really just not compatible with how Christians want to live. The great theological debates of the past weren’t argued out fully before they were settled, and the people who settled them didn’t exactly have the fullest of pictures either.</p><p>To pull this back to the question, it’s a matter of perspective. From your perspective, the world is terrible. From God’s perspective, it’s a perfect arena in which to grow. Helping you do that is God’s aim. You can either work with Him or go about your business without Him. If God had created a perfect world, then we wouldn’t be able to grow in it.</p>
