---
layout: post
title: Could our collective consciousness have sentience? The whole of humanity has accomplished many things, and like an individual, can often be torn between what he or she wants.
date: 2018-08-07
---

<p>I devote a lot of time musing about collective consciousness. As human beings, we already have many many many different agents living inside of us, the individual cells of our body. Our nervous system is something like a computer, countless individual processing units which don’t really do much on their own, but all contribute to the task of directing the organism.</p><p>The interesting thing about physical agency is that speed of communication is extremely important. If you cut the neural superhighway between the two brain halves, the two halves of the brain individuate to a degree, but because they’re still connected with each other via other means, they still present as one singular identity. You can play tricks on one half of the brain to get it to not include the other half.</p><p>This same sort of process of singularization of identity happens in relationships. The more time and communication and relationship-building you do with a person, the more you seem to operate as a single unit. Think about twins who know each other so well they can finish each other’s sentences. They’re individual, but there’s also a strong collective identity.</p><p>But even though there is a strong collective identity that can take on a life of its own, the twins are still individuals. You’re asking about a collective ‘sentience’, a collective ‘individual’. Well, imagine the ‘person’ being created by the twins’ collective identity, or how any relationship might exist as a individual. Its sense of agency, its sense of personhood, is created by the will of the individuals.</p><p>Think about a company. It consists of people hired to do the work of running the business. As an agent, the company only exists to make money. But it’s a collective that also has room for smaller goals, like weekly team lunches or social outings. The company has a culture that’s created partly by the management and partly by the people that work there.</p><p>Companies collect into industries, industries collect into economies. Each of these things has its collective aspects, the directors of the ‘hive’, and the agents contributing. The economy is but one part of a system of organs that make up a nation. Each of these things is a collective of collectives, and you are a collective of collectives. Individually-identifiable units contributing to a common purpose.</p><p>Sometimes those purposes are at odds, but once the differences are worked out, then the members of the collective can operate freely again, because the defining aspect of a collective is that the individual agents that make it up get more out of being a part of it than they do not being a part of it.</p><p>So then what provokes sentience? What causes there to exist a sense of “what it’s like” to exist? Is a company sentient?</p><p>I think the answer to this question boils down to the aforementioned communication speed. You define agency by the ability to accomplish goals. You define sentience by subjective experience. The agency you and I experience is different from the agency that a company can exert. There’s no ‘what it’s like to be a company’ except <i>how we imagine it.</i></p><p>The directors in charge of a human collective get to exercise some will over its operations. We need the directors because there’s just not enough agency in the collective to make it self-directing.</p><p>Humans cannot self-direct at first, they need to develop their brains and minds in the safe cocoon of the womb. Eventually they’re born, and then they have to spend another 18 years or so inside their parents home before they can finally exert full autonomy as adults.</p><p>Collectives too have this process of sheltering and birth. Companies eventually go public and then get traded on the public stock exchanges. What you get when you buy a stock is a little piece of ownership. If you buy enough of it then you even get a say in how it’s run.</p><p>But are even publicly traded companies sentient? Again, let’s look at the speed of communication. It’s plain to see that there’s just not enough communication, and the communication that does happen doesn’t even come close to the level of providing for a truly subjective experience.</p><p>Not to say that it can’t happen in the future, but going on what we understand now, humanity itself isn’t sentient. Perhaps it’s in the process of being born though.</p>
