---
layout: post
title: What&#39;s wrong with Apple products?
date: 2018-06-11
---

<p>I’ve recently purchased a Mid-2012 Macbook Pro, the last one before the Retina. I could easily afford a late-model or even brand new one. Why am I slumming it with 5 year old technology?</p><p>Because I want to keep my laptops for awhile and be able to repair them when they break. I’m hoping to use this one for at least ten years. You just can’t do that with Apple products anymore. The new MacBook Pro’s keyboard is vulnerable to the tiniest speck of dust or water.</p><p>The touchbar is a useless gimmick. Everywhere you see Apple making decisions that bank on their reputation as market leaders in order to make people’s lives worse. Apple can’t be trusted anymore to act in its customers’ best interests.</p><p>Once that AppleCare warranty expires, you’re going to get pushed, <b>hard</b> by Apple to buy a new machine. Apple’s business model requires it. They use shoddy internal components and make extremely questionable decisions. You can follow Louis Rossmann on YouTube to get an in-depth picture of just how far Apple is sinking in the name of profits.</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/kE_TDLAM370?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="kE_TDLAM370" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/kE_TDLAM370/0.jpg');"></div><p>In each of these videos, Rossmann takes you through a repair he has to do day after day, and highlights the questionable design decision that Apple made that causes his repair shop to get inundated with lots and lots of these repairs.</p>
