---
layout: post
title: From an enlightened spiritual perspective, if I know of some unethical or immoral things being done to helpless people by their caretakers, should I try to stop what’s going on or is it an egoic desire, defending or imposing my moral beliefs?
date: 2018-10-30
---

<p>The enlightened spiritual perspective involves two main sources of input as to where your decision criteria come from. Your own inborn intuition, which is usually really really good, and what we call “psychic” input.</p><p>The main problem with the enlightened perspective is ignorance. Nothing about being enlightened gives you the ability to know things you just have no reason to know. You can get psychic input out the wazoo, but if you could actually control what psychic input you were getting, then it wouldn’t be psychic, it would be omniscience. So yeah. Enlightenment isn’t omniscience.</p><p>Psychic guidance doesn’t come from the self, but rather from God, or whatever you’re calling it. Internal and external. Internal means it derives from your identity, external means it comes from random anything. It can be really hard to tell the difference.</p><p>The defining characteristic of enlightenment is that the being sees no difference between his self and the things he / she perceives. So if you are witnessing unethical or immoral things being done to someone else, then the enlightened person is also the person being abused. But they are <b>also</b> the person doing the abusing. Ideally this means you can stop the situation non-violently, as you can accommodate both people’s interests so there’s no conflict.</p><p>But, naturally, being able to see both people’s perspective doesn’t mean you’ll be able to actually see a viable middle ground. So in practice no intervention will be seen that is actually non-violent. And really, is every enlightened person destined to be basically non-violent Batman? Any perceived conflict demands focused, perfect intervention on the part of the newly-minted superhero?</p><p>No, there is no way for an enlightened person to solve everything that is wrong with the world that he / she perceives. There is no end to problems. simply no way to address it all, even if you limit it to just the problems you see. So picking and choosing which situations to respond to and apply your effort to is still going to be a thing even when you’re enlightened.</p>
