---
layout: post
title: Is there a point to being a Christian if you&#39;re always doubting your faith?
date: 2018-07-17
---

<p>I originally wanted to comment on <a href="/profile/Dick-Harfield">Dick Harfield’</a>s answer, but realized I would need to expand my reasoning and as such I’d just best make an answer.</p><p>You will never be able to escape religion. You can choose to not follow its precepts, but you can’t completely rid your life of the spiritual. It will always intrude, somehow. The reason this is is because we live in an uncertain world with uncertainties we will never be able to fully plumb.</p><p>Religion is simply one approach to dealing with the uncertainties. Atheism is another. They are both attempts to reify certainty onto uncertainty. Identifying as someone who is certain is the ultimate source of the dissonance.</p><p>I am a Christian. Like any Christian, I pick and choose what and how I want to believe. To claim that the criteria by which I pick and choose is tantamount to saying I am above uncertainty, above <i>the mystery</i>. I am not above the mystery, nobody is.</p><p>Not even the Catholic Church pretends to be above God, only above men. They make their claim from the weight of history that their understanding of God is better than everyone else’s. For some things, they claim infallibility, that they cannot possibly be wrong. The Catholic Church is easy to ignore.</p><p>Nobody has a lock on the criteria needed to be a Christian. You won’t be immune from the judgments of other Christians, but nobody can tell you how to believe.</p><p>I can say that for your own peace of mind, you should think more carefully about your doubts and talk to other Christians about them. They can give you great ideas. This is religion at its best, a framework for people to help others grapple with the mystery.</p><p>Where I have landed on this is the necessity for religion to evolve and mature so as to accommodate the lack of historicity of things like Jesus’ resurrection or miracles. Even if they actually happened, they are no longer relevant. Spirituality does not need to involve the supernatural.</p><p>The Christian religion is still historically, mythically, culturally, morally, and mystically relevant. Amazingly so. It’s just that much of their theology is cruft. Theology gets crufty all the time, we shouldn’t blame Christianity for this. 2000 years is a long time for a religion.</p>
