---
layout: post
title: What does psychology say about Jesus Christ character? Are there any decent articles or books on that subject?
date: 2018-05-23
---

<p>The thing about literary characters is that the rules of drama demand that their actions and reasons for those actions are constrained to fit the plot and the need to entertain the audience. As such it’s practically useless to analyze the characters <i>with psychology</i>. Instead you use the forms of dramatic character analysis.</p><p>The first thing you do to analyze a literary character is look for the amount of <i>depth</i> the character displays. Narratives have to ‘pay’ for character depth by virtually doubling the amount of stage time they give to those characters. Background characters tend to be one dimensional and serve exactly one purpose in the narrative.</p><p>Foreground characters have space in the story for flaws, that’s kind of the defining difference between a main and a supporting character. A character flaw is something that causes the character problems at the beginning of the story, and that the events of the story work to make some kind of improvement in.</p><p>How does this apply to Jesus? Well, dramatic forms were well in their infancy back when the New Testament was written. And, well, the New Testament, particularly the books that told the story of Jesus, were in the form of <i>biography</i>, a very, very early form of it. A biography concerns itself less with plot and more on appearing as a work of history, a straight chronicle of events. So you can’t really apply the same rules as you would to a form of drama.</p><p>So you can’t really apply dramatic character analysis to Jesus either, because the gospels weren’t written as drama. This is important because it’s the actual events of the story, the interactions between the characters, the <i>drama</i>, that provide the meat for <i>dramatic</i> analysis.</p><p>Since there’s no dramatic character arc, the gospels aren’t cohesive enough for that, you can’t do anything more to understand Jesus than to read the stories and take them at face value.</p>
