---
layout: post
title: What is the difference between enlightenment in Buddhism and that in Christian mysticism?
date: 2018-03-04
---

<p>Buddhist mysticism revolves around using concentration meditation as a tool to bring about various insights. They write a lot of maps and communicate a lot about where they’re at and what they’re feeling. Fundamentally, they’re trying to eliminate the self and ego.</p><p>Christian mysticism revolves around the concept of <i>surrender</i>. Fundamentally, they’re trying to merge with God and Jesus. They do not do a lot of communication and sharing. It was influenced at various times by apocalyptic belief. The self and ego are things they give to Jesus and God.</p><p>So, when taken from the Buddhist perspective, Christian mysticism would tend to produce imperfectly enlightened sages, requiring additional lifetimes in order to fully apprehend the truths of impermanence and no-self.</p><p>The Christian perspective would find Buddhism sorely lacking as it generally lacks higher powers, and the ones it does have, it doesn’t take very seriously. There’s all these amazing things out there, why not harness and learn from them. With Jesus as your guide, you can’t really go wrong. Buddhists call all this “content” and label it an obstacle to true growth.</p><p>So both kinds of mystics would have issues with each other.</p><p>As far as enlightenment is concerned, it’s a Buddhist concept that requires reincarnation to really work. As Christians by and large don’t believe in reincarnation, (<a href="https://www.americamagazine.org/faith/2015/10/21/25-percent-us-christians-believe-reincarnation-whats-wrong-picture" data-qt-tooltip="americamagazine.org">this</a> article claims that a quarter of Christians living in the US believe in reincarnation, not sure if I believe it) the concept of enlightenment understandably doesn’t get much attention.</p>
