---
layout: post
title: What Holy Bible is the most accurate to the original holy scriptures and is easy to read? I don’t want a Bible that’s mistranslated the wrong way.
date: 2018-04-19
---

<p>Accurate to what? God did not dictate the scriptures to a lucky chosen scribe. They are various stories that originally were handed down by word of mouth. Each of the Gospels were taken from different sources, it’s generally accepted by scholars that none of them were actually written by the apostles they’re named after.</p><p>If you want the clearest picture of how people worshipped back then, then you need to learn Latin and read the Vulgate. The Vulgate was a translation of the original Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek manuscripts into Latin. The original manuscripts are fragmented and impossible to ‘read’ except in purely academic sense.</p><p>More to the point, you don’t need some arbitrarily “accurate” version of the Bible, you need to understand the overall story and message of the Bible, which holds across translations. You can look up chapters and verses online and see them in 50 different translations. If one of them is really different, you can look at the history of that particular translation and discover what they were trying to do.</p><p>This gives you a much fuller picture of the Bible than just trying to limit yourself to the “best” Bible.</p><p>But to answer your question, the Catholic Church endorses the Douay-Rheims Challoner Bible. The Douay-Rheims intends to be the most faithful English translation of the Vulgate, and the Challoner revision aimed to fix a lot of the weirdnesses a direct Latin translation entails.</p><p>So where did Richard Challoner get much of the revision material from? The King James!</p><p>So yeah, the differences between the Bibles aren’t really all that material.</p>
