---
layout: post
title: How would you compare psychopathy to being enlightened, being that they posses some similar positive traits: non-attachment, lack of fear, anxiety and depression, sharp rational mind and focus on the positive?
date: 2018-11-24
---

<p>This question is a good one because of the neuroscience angle, but a bad one because it perpetuates the “grab bag of personality traits” perception of enlightenment.</p><p>The reality is, psychopathy and enlightenment are about as similar as apple pie is to Butterfinger candy bars. They’re both sweet and can be considered in roughly the same category of food, dessert. Enlightenment is a <i>spiritual</i> process, the pathway to earning the positive traits described in enlightened people is a process of surrender to things and forces larger than the self. The process changes the brain and mind.</p><p>Psychopathy is an unfortunate neurological condition where part of a person’s brain just doesn’t function. The neurological condition makes it impossible for a person to find enlightenment, because surrender requires an act of will on the part of the whole brain. If you can’t engage the limbic system, then you’re just not capable of surrender. Surrender is a cathartic release that changes how you see yourself at a deep level. If your limbic system isn’t functioning, then there’s no ‘seeing yourself’ part to change.</p><p>The end result, enlightenment, only superficially resembles psychopathy to people that have no experience with either psychopathy or enlightenment. Enlightened people can say and do seemingly crazy things. They can totally lack a superego that would otherwise regulate their public behavior. Think Diogenes of Sinope, the man who famously told Alexander the Great to stand out of his sunlight. You would not see a psychopath acting in such a way.</p>
