---
layout: post
title: How would you explain the Divine Providence?
date: 2018-06-05
---

<p>God provides for all to grow and change in this life. Many choose to ignore this gift, and many choose to ignore God’s role in it, but it matters not to God, He goes on giving it to us regardless, and just hopes we will one day decide to take Him up on the opportunity.</p><p>It’s really fascinating, watching the things God chooses to provide to people and why. Just yesterday, I was sitting at Taco Bell eating dinner, didn’t feel like spending money or cooking. I was inside, and as I started to eat, a youngish looking homeless guy had his dinner, a box of crackers, and a few packs of cigarettes.</p><p>As I’m eating my dinner, I contemplate if I am intended to help this man. I come up with a plan of action for what I will do when I finish eating and it’s time to go home. I noticed his box of crackers had lots of smaller packs. So I thought about offering to buy one of his cracker packs off of him. I thought it would be better than just offering to buy him dinner or bringing something out to him.</p><p>I’m trying to decide whether to just bring something out which he may or may not be able to eat, or saying I want one of his cracker packs but I don’t have any cash, can I get him a meal instead, as I finish my meal, when a young black man beats me to the punch. I can’t hear them talking, but they come inside together and the homeless guy is invited to order whatever he wants.</p><p>I found it quite interesting to see this happen right in front of me. I’ve walked the razor edge of homelessness before and had friends that have become homeless and I’m well aware of what goes through someone’s mind as they’re forced to be the recipient of generosity. I could read the intentions and mindsets of both the helper and the helpee like I was reading a book.</p><p>God’s message to me in this instant was that I really don’t need to be worried about the homeless in my area, it’s just not my cross to bear. The creation of wisdom is hard and it just takes a lot of subtle interventions. God can’t send just one angel to help redeem someone like that, he often has to send dozens, and I need to focus my efforts on building my own little piece of the kingdom of Heaven, not on being an angel.</p>
