---
layout: post
title: Have you ever had an experience that makes you believe you lived a past life?
date: 2018-05-29
---

<p>Sometime in my early twenties I had a strange epiphany. My consciousness felt way, way older than the 23 or so years it had been around. It felt, in fact, timeless. The feeling I discovered back then continues to this day. I don’t remember anything that happened before birth, but it feels like the same sort of lack of remembrance I have for what I had for lunch 3 years ago on this date.</p><p>The idea of past lives rests on the overfocus on the physical. We identify with our bodies, so we think that to exist we need one. But I think existence is perfectly possible without them. Hard for me to know for sure, right now anyway, but I suspect I spend much more time without a body than I do with one.</p><p>Consciousness slowly evolves over time. It can evolve faster or slower. It evolves faster when you’re <i>invested</i> in whatever it is you’re doing. Without a body, all of existence happens mentally. This naturally slows down growth, as without any reason to focus on any given direction, you’re less invested.</p><p>So we jump into bodies in order to grow faster. Like anyone else of a spiritual bent I’ve considered what a past life of mine might have been, and what I came up with is a minor French nobleman in the 17–1800s, with enough of an inheritance in order to live comfortably. Who knows if it’s really true, but does kinda fit my current personality.</p><p>A few hundred years would have passed between then and my current life, that sounds like about how much time it would take me to get bored of exploring non-materiality.</p><p>Now, I don’t know that I’d ever want to destroy my identity and history again. There’s just so much to explore and look at and do. I mean, I’m not afraid to do it, but just because I wouldn’t miss my car all that much if someone stole it doesn’t mean I would just give it away.</p><p>The big question I have for my life is just how <i>much</i> I’ve grown since my last life. Was I doing crazy amounts of mysticism then too? I imagine so. Did I get as far as I did in this life? I don’t really think so.</p>
