---
layout: post
title: Are there billions or trillions of people in hell?
date: 2018-04-09
---

<p>My estimate is around 50,000 or so, most of them from pre-medieval times. Hell stopped being relevant with the advent of modernity. It’s purpose is twofold. First, to scare the faithful into playing nice with each other. Second, to allow for the saving of souls that would otherwise be completely lost. Both God and Christians desperately want every last soul to go to Heaven. An individual, by committing mortal sin, turns their own back on God. God’s punishment is always appropriate and never unduly cruel.</p><p>However, it’s not really possible anymore to turn your back on God. Christian morality is literally everywhere, and even atheists have good Christian values imparted on them just like everyone else. God really is everywhere, His bounty overfloweth. We do not even need God to give us examples anymore of how to behave, we’re perfectly capable of that ourselves.</p><p>We have entered into a new age in history and have a new understanding of human nature. The effects of sinners are blunted so they don’t really threaten the broader order. Remember, God’s wrath is invoked only when your sins affect more than just yourself.</p><p>Christianity won the war over the soul. We’re a long way from the days when people killed each other over small faults. I imagine there’s a small trickle of souls going to Hell still from some uncivilized parts of the world where life is still as it was in Biblical times and the population has Christianity available to them. Nasty, ugly, ruled by selfishness and vice. And possibly a few of today’s wicked, such as serial killers and mass murderers.</p><p>It was argued by a few early Christian theologians that Jesus will spring everyone out of Hell during the end times. I’m sympathetic to this view, but it did not gain much acceptance back when it was proposed.</p>
