---
layout: post
title: Do subconscious minds really turn our manifestations into reality?
date: 2018-08-07
---

<p>Think about this really really carefully. What does it mean to believe something? It means to turn something that started in your head, into something more than that. Belief reifies truth over uncertainty. Materialists want to reach immediately for the supernatural but don’t make that jump just yet.</p><p>If I’m trying to convince you of something, I’m going to have a much easier time of it if I believe in the thing I’m trying to convince you of. If I believe I’m going to be successful, then I will be more likely to actually be successful at it than not.</p><p>Again, take note of the materialist response. “sure, but nothing <b>magical</b> is going on here!” Again, I’m not trying to argue that anything like that is, not yet anyway.</p><p>All I’m trying to say is that it’s the whole <b>purpose</b> of the mind to turn the things it wants to be true, into true things. Our subconscious plays a vital role in this process. When I make an executive decision, say, I want Taco Bell for dinner tonight, there’s a lot of intermediaries that don’t get consciously decided on. There may be intermediaries that do get conscious attention, like exactly when I want to eat.</p><p>There’s subconscious input in even the decision to go get Taco Bell. What we currently have a taste for depends on a lot of stuff.</p><p>So I can prove the trivial reading of this statement true. Any decision is a manifestation of conscious will onto reality. Our subconscious plays a large role in the decision making process.</p><p>In fact you can make a strong case that the <i>only</i> thing the conscious mind does is make <i>executive</i> decisions. This means that the mind is only deciding on the outcome, not on the path. What decides the path? The subconscious! Tons of little decisions that range from how to get up, deciding which route to take to get to your door, anything that doesn’t really need conscious attention gets delegated to the subconscious.</p><p>To go any further than this you need to invoke belief. Both in the sense of deciding on what manifestations are possible, and in the capabilities of the subconscious to find pathways to manifestation.</p><p>This can get really crazy. The most powerful ‘magickal’ technique I’ve been able to find involves playing with multiple universes. The subconscious simply selects the universe it wants to see you proceed down. Direct reality alteration in a totally ‘smooth’ sense such that the conscious is unable to detect it.</p><p>So we delegate simple manifestations to our vastly more granular subconscious, while the delegation for directing the impossibly complicated direct reality alteration is done by our subconscious to God. Not even the subconscious can handle the details of quantum physics and all that, but God can.</p><p>It’s just an idea that you can try to play with. If you do start playing with it, you’re doing magick and all magick has to abide by the rules of magick, which, if you boil it all down to one statement, means you can’t force your beliefs on anyone. Don’t ask for the hot babe to magickally fall in love with you, ask for a magickally-facilitated conversation. Then before you know it you’re standing right next to each other and all you have to do is say hi.</p><p>If you suspend disbelief you can have a lot of fun. Try to keep it up for like a week before you decide its stupid and not for you.</p>
