---
layout: post
title: Why would a therapist get silent for a long period of time leaving me feeling vulnerable? I guess that’s what I’m feeling or near a breakdown.
date: 2018-12-29
---

<p>The point of therapy is to provoke <i>catharsis</i>, which is a mental state whereby the mind releases its death-grip on a particular way of looking at things, so that it can naturally find newer and better ways of seeing them.</p><p>Vulnerability and breakdown are just different ways of characterizing catharsis. The therapeutic setting is intended to be a warm and safe way of experiencing, and then exploring it. Going silent at various points is intended to get your mind pointed inward, so that it can process whatever it is that’s keeping you tied down.</p><p>I don’t know why you’re in therapy, but let’s take as an example that perhaps it’s a bad relationship. You know you need to end it but can’t bring yourself to. The point of therapy is to bring about a cathartic state of mind where you can clearly see, not just the reasons why you can’t do what needs to be done, but also catch a glimpse of the deep inner conflict that makes you feel like you have to continue subjecting yourself to it.</p><p>Once glimpsed, the mind starts to see different ways of looking at it. Perhaps deep inside you don’t feel like you deserve a better relationship. The feelings of vulnerability and breakdown are resulting from your conscious awareness getting closer to the realization. The mind holds back from it as a protective mechanism, thinking that it’s a breakdown that will make it harder for you to function.</p><p>But vulnerability and release are the most powerful ways we have of realizing our agency. Being willing to embrace these seemingly negative states is perhaps the most valuable skill we can have. Because they allow us to look more clearly at ourselves and ascertain how we’re holding ourselves back. A therapist is simply a mirror through which we can observe ourselves, and the silence is a tool to encourage us to do just that.</p>
