---
layout: post
title: As a Christian who believes in hell, what do you imagine it to be like?
date: 2018-05-25
---

<p>I imagine Hell to be an immensely somber place where people go to cleanse themselves of their Earthly sins. Some people quite harshly torment themselves in life, they can’t imagine themselves ever going to Heaven, and believe their rightful place is in Hell.</p><p>God grants their wish by providing a kind of country club of suffering. You can wake up in the morning and roast for awhile in the lake of fire. Then you might pencil yourself in for an afternoon whipping, where an angel, wait I meant demon, takes exquisite pleasure in causing you pain, which you see yourself as deserving.</p><p>Speaking of the demons, who are these entities? I imagine there are two sorts, those that are aware of God and those who aren’t. The ones that are aware are actually purpose-minded angels in demonic clothing. They aren’t sadistic, but understand their role and go about it with exactly the precision and clarity needed to prod you ever closer to your moment of repentance. Your deep need for punishment is mirrored by the angel demons and they strip away your self-loathing, one scourging lash at a time.</p><p>The other, unaware demons are just creations of the angel demons and handle the aspects of punishment that don’t quite require an angel’s grace, or are too unsavory for even an angel to participate in, like say if you have the need to be sexually violated.</p><p>You have to be Christian to go to Hell. And Hell only lasts as long as it takes for you to reach the moment of repentance. At any moment, you can leave Hell, go take a look at the pearly gates and hear the choir of the angels and the warmth of God’s embrace. But you can’t bring yourself to walk in, and so go take another bath in the lake of fire to cleanse your soul a little bit more. The lake of fire is preferable to the chorus of angels.</p><p>You may not go straight from Hell to Heaven but might need some time in quiet reflection to heal. So you’ll enter Purgatory or Limbo, and just rest your weary bones, talk to others, and slowly build up the courage to brave the pearly gates.</p><p>Eventually you’ll make it. And the angels and your family will be there waiting for you, joyful that you finally made it.</p><p>If you’re not Christian by belief, if you don’t believe in Heaven as a good place to spend eternity, I have no idea what you’ll do after you die. My guess is immediate reincarnation. Your new body-mind will have another chance to decide whether Christianity is for you or not. Or perhaps God will grant your wish for oblivion. No idea.</p>
