---
layout: post
title: Why don&#39;t I ever experience anything out of the ordinary when &#39;my mind is still&#39; during meditation? I believe in different dimensions of reality yet never experience it.
date: 2018-08-07
---

<p>You have to provoke the experience, it doesn’t just happen. One thing I used was neopagan religious themes and methods when I was getting started. Practicing visualization meditation primes your mind to start to build experiences that way when you’re under trance. But if you never do any visualization then the mind won’t just find it by itself.</p><p>Having experiences while you’re meditating is equal parts ‘listening’ and ‘willing’. It can be very tricky to find the right balance, and you need a lot of time ‘under’ in order to develop those skills. If you spend a lot of time willing, then your experiences won’t have ‘depth’ and they won’t be interesting. Sure, you can construct an imagined environment and explore it, but it won’t give you anything back.</p><p>So you have to learn how to ‘listen’ to the subconscious. Prime it with certain thoughts and allow the formless void to organize around whatever you’ve primed it with. So if you want to ask God, or Jesus or your Higher Self, or anything really, a question, ‘call’ God into your mind. Then ask your question and wait for something to come back.</p><p>What you get in the beginning won’t be anything remotely coherent. Random flickers of feeling / thought just bubbling under the surface. ‘Laser’ in on those feelings, anything that doesn’t feel like it’s coming from you, and try to ‘pull’ meaning from it.</p><p>Keep doing it and eventually, it’ll just start working. What’s happening is your brain is building pathways that it’s never built before across parts of your brain that have probably never communicated with each other directly before. You only get a trickle at first, but it doesn’t take long once you start getting the trickle before it becomes a flood.</p>
