---
layout: post
title: How come barely anyone wants to speak on spirituality and enlightenment? It&#39;s like no one cares and some people get uncomfortable talking about it. Why is that?
date: 2018-06-26
---

<p>Enlightenment is a very, very niche topic, that attracts an unfortunately large number of people who see it as their ticket out of a desperate situation.</p><p>But when you get right down to it, even in the one religion that believes in it, Buddhism, you’ve got whole segments that don’t believe that you can really achieve it in one life time, and those people look at the ones who want to believe you can as silly dreamers. Or they would if they didn’t have to at least pay lip service to the idea because the Buddha said it was possible. (saying it’s possible doesn’t really say anything, it can be possible but not practical for many many reasons)</p><p>I have no problem talking about enlightenment but cutting through the mountain of BS on the topic is a Herculean task. And you don’t really get anything out of it except to run right smack into the fact that most people interested have a fantasy-land ideal of what it is. And if you try to bring that fantasy down to Earth they just lose interest. They don’t want the enlightenment that involves making the spiritual process nigh-instantaneous, they want the enlightenment that gives them Buddha-super-powers.</p><p>And then you have the aspect that if someone says they’re enlightened, you’re instantly put into the same mental bucket they put people who claim they’re Jesus in. I owned that one years ago, doesn’t bother me a bit. But you have to push through that barrier to get to interesting grounds for a discussion.</p><p>For all these reasons, I tend not to bring it up unless someone else does first.</p><p>But I’m here, I’m enlightened, not uncomfortable at all about it. if you want to talk about it, I’m willing to entertain you.</p>
