---
layout: post
title: Is the enlightenment a big bang or you get enlightened gradually through meditation practice?
date: 2018-11-09
---

<p>In my estimation it happens gradually, and not just by meditation. An ‘all at once’ event is a physical neurological change, and these usually change you for the worse and not for the better.</p><p>The lack of willingness to study and contemplate what others have said and experienced about enlightenment coupled with the innate human desire for power and mastery along with the similarly human desire to minimize effort, all conspire to clothe every last describable bit of removal of desire in spiritual clothes. Resist this urge.</p><p>I’ve distilled the pathway to enlightenment as requiring three complimentary things. Meditation, self-inquiry, and surrender. They can be visualized as a three-legged stool. Not doing any one of these things means your enlightenment will fall down where it’s the weakest. All of them require work, and maintenance.</p><p>Meditation is the continual practice of exploring the mind and witnessing the patterns and illusions that it holds.</p><p>Self-inquiry is asking continual questions about the meaning behind those illusions so they can see the patterns in meaning.</p><p>Surrender is the continual realization that one is subject to, not the master of, these patterns, illusory as they are.</p><p>The ‘point’, if it can be said to have such a thing, of enlightenment is the relief of suffering, and the three parts of the stool contribute to keep you elevated above the ability to suffer. Suffering is <i>gradually</i> reduced when you work on the legs.</p><p>Now imagine getting up on the stool, and then getting off the stool. When you’re off the stool, you do not use the tools to make your life better, you simply wallow in misery. At any time, you can exercise the tools of spirituality, meditation, self-inquiry, and surrender, to lessen your misery. But your lack of familiarity / mastery of them will limit your ability to actually use them to actually limit suffering.</p><p>The separation of being from self, what we call nonduality, is ultimately a result of the final leg, surrender. So it’s the most powerful leg. But surrender without meditation or self-inquiry is not power or mastery. You need to be familiar with the capabilities of the self and understanding of the power you can wield before you can legitimately say you’ve transcended them. Self-inquiry, asking questions, is the tool of power.</p><p>If you’re powerful through self-inquiry and can surrender to even more powerful flows, you can accomplish much in the world. But enlightenment is transcension of the world, not mastery of it. Meditation allows you to remove being from the world and explore the space not dominated by physical rules and maths.</p><p>Slowly it all congeals into a state and being that can fluidly move into and out of the world, lead and take charge or follow and assist. Things can be gained or lost without affecting essence.</p><p>This is enlightenment.</p>
