---
layout: post
title: Is the Rails tutorial by Hartl the best way to go, assuming one is willing to do the work? From your May 2017 answer to &quot;Why are so many genius coders and hackers not giving tips to others to become like them?&quot;
date: 2018-09-19
---

<p>We can break this down into three questions. First whether you want to learn web development. Second which language and framework to choose. Third is how to learn it.</p><p>If you’re looking to do web development, then Rails is the best framework for the individual and small team. Rails has the advantage of having a very very large install base of software, a large and vibrant community, enough structure to keep you from beating your head against the wall <b>too much</b>, though of course some amount of head smashing seems to be necessary.</p><p>Rational reasons you might not choose Rails:</p><ul><li>You don’t care to do web development</li><li>You want to build your own ecommerce site (just hold your nose and learn Magento)</li><li>You really hate Ruby for some reason.</li></ul><p>Non-rational reasons to not choose Rails:</p><ul><li>You think it’s slow (server performance is not usually the bottleneck, figure out caching first because you’re going to need it even if you use a ‘fast’ server then get back to me)</li><li>You think it’s old and/or unfashionable (it still does the job better than anything else, besides, people still get paid a quarter of million dollars a year to maintain COBOL)</li><li>You think NodeJS is going to be easier because you only learn one language for server and front end and not two (what about HTML and CSS, besides the state of the NodeJS ecosystem is a veritable dumpster fire at the moment compared to steady, solid, dependable Rails)</li></ul><p>If you’ve decided Rails is right for you, there are two basic approaches for learning the framework. There’s the way I did it and there’s leaning on a course / tutorial. I actually did do the gold-standard Rails tutorial at the time, but I didn’t actually build any sites with Rails until much later.</p><p>What did I use instead? Sinatra. Sinatra is a barebones web framework that gives you a very minimal base to work off of. It’s great for the novice to get their feet wet, and you can build your Ruby knowledge and have a much easier learning curve towards actually getting stuff built.</p><p>I didn’t switch to Rails until a past project got so unwieldy that I thought after the fact, “man I wish I had just used Rails.” My next job was Rails so I didn’t have a choice, but I would have used it anyway if I had been called on to greenfield something.</p><p>There are other frameworks that aren’t Rails and Sinatra for Ruby that may pique your interest. I personally don’t recommend them but if Rails intimidates you yet you still want more out of a framework, knock yourself out, but I’d advise you to at least give Rails a shot first.</p><p>Everything that people hate about web development, Rails has an answer for. Other frameworks by design don’t, because if they did, they’d just be Rails. But you have to put the time and effort into Rails before you know what those answers are.</p>
