---
layout: post
title: Is blocking someone an example of immaturity?
date: 2018-02-27
---

<p>I made a connection with a Quoran that was quite popular for a few months, when I first started contributing. She was interesting, engaging, friendly, but very, very guarded. We struck up a correspondence via Quora Messages.</p><p>For perhaps 3 weeks we went back and forth on the topic of love. We were both answering a lot of questions on the topic and had similar messages to tell people so there was a lot of commonalities. At the same time, there were a <b>lot</b> of differences.</p><p>The sense I kept getting from her was “wounded bird.” She used pride as armor. I really really wanted to get past this armor so we could dispense with the constant distance, and start to engage on a real level.</p><p>It wasn’t to be. I assaulted her ego a little too directly, and without any warning she blocked me and completely cut me out of her life. It was over. I’ve dealt with a lot of fragile egos in my day and developed the skills to be able to handle them gently. But hers was on a completely different level than I was used to. I can handle abused dogs that hate men, just give me enough time. I couldn’t handle her.</p><p>I don’t know how I would have gone about it differently if I had to do it again. Dealing with fragile personalities is <i>work</i>. Constantly being on pins and needles when dealing with someone is exhausting and requires constant attention. What makes it worthwhile is getting to that other side where your friendship can weather blow-ups. When you can relax and trust the structure of the relationship.</p><p>But there’s no way her and I could ever have gotten invested enough to want to get to that level. Not via Quora Messages. And I didn’t see any viable path to getting on the phone.</p><p>She eventually got too many BNBR violations and got banned from Quora.</p><p>Do I consider her blocking me to be a sign of immaturity? Sure, I guess. But I’m not going to sit here and crow over it. The experience steeled me to get better at handling deep, trauma-driven personality. Because I can’t change her if I can’t change myself so that I can handle her. The mindset behind this question is the one that needs to mature, not the person that blocked it.</p>
