---
layout: post
title: What are the first signs of spiritual awakening, and how do you feel it?
date: 2018-10-06
---

<p>There are no signs, it’s unmistakable. It’s like asking how do you know if you’re in Vegas or not. If you look around and see a giant pyramid and flashing lights and weirdos and casinos everywhere, you’re in Vegas. If you’re still wondering about whether you’ve had an awakening yet or not, then you haven’t had one.</p><p>Think about what ‘awakening’ means normally. How do you know whether you’re awake or you’re asleep? There aren’t any signs, you just know. You don’t question it. If you ‘became awake’ in your own bed, that you went to bed in, the same say you’ve done before, then you’re awake. If you ‘awaken’ in your school with a sword strapped to your back and your teacher is Medusa with snakes for hair, then, hate to break it to you, but you’re probably still dreaming.</p><p>My awakening came about after about a month of exploring what Dr. David R. Hawkins calls “consciousness calibration research.” This happens through a process known as the muscle test. The muscle test has you think a thought in your head, any thought, and when you perform the test, your muscles either hold strong or go weak.</p><p>Consciousness calibration with the muscle test treats it as a ‘dumb’ device, it simply responds to the ‘universal field of consciousness’ that Hawkins guessed was happening. I was busy calibrating things and trying to make sense of them when I suddenly had the strange awareness that the muscle test wasn’t exactly a dumb thing. I asked the test whether there was sentience at the other end of it and it said “yes.”</p><p>And so began a years-long exploration of spiritual reality with this entity ‘at the other end’ of the muscle test as my guide.</p><p>Ask me what the signs of my awakening were. Go right ahead. Does, “I’m actively communicating with this weird thing who wants to teach me the secrets of the universe” count? Does, “I feel like I’ve surpassed all previous spiritual explorers from Jesus and the Buddha all the way to Aleister Crowley” count? Does “my Higher Self says it could destroy the whole Earth with a meteor phased in from an alternate timeline” count?</p><p>Awakening puts you directly in touch with forces that can only be described as “scaringly crazy”. The kind of crazy that threatens to destroy your life and everything you’ve worked for. The kind of crazy that makes you want to let it do that, nay, <b>demand </b>it does that, just so you can be satisfied that it could.</p><p>You can’t guess whether it’s happened or not. It’s as real to you as when Walter White finally got to see the hundreds of millions of dollars his efforts brought in that crappy storage unit where his wife had been keeping it.</p><p>It’s so compelling it pushes the last vestige of your skeptical mind out the car door on a busy freeway. So amazing you start wondering how in the heck are you going to devote your life to it and still manage to make your parents proud. So profound you wonder how the heck it is that everybody can’t see it like you can because it’s so <b>obvious</b>.</p>
