---
layout: post
title: Do you believe God can control computers?
date: 2018-06-19
---

<p>Sure why not? They’re mostly deterministic, but there are areas where their behavior isn’t quite so, particularly any random number generators. Also God can affect anything you’re not looking closely enough at, so even deterministic systems can be affected if you’re not looking too hard at it. This is how He can affect pseudorandom number generators.</p><p>There’s also the possibility that God may find reason to not hide His involvement. This can be more difficult to do than you might expect. God doesn’t want any concrete proof of His existence to survive in the world, but that doesn’t mean He can’t create an unexplainable experience.</p><p>One thing I used to do is to ‘channel’ the playing of a game. By channeling I mean getting input for the game from somewhere other than my normal thought processes. In the example I’m thinking of it was the muscle test, capable of binary responses, not extremely well-suited for serving as input, but not unreasonably inconvenient.</p><p>Any time I ‘put my hands in God’ like this, I get an interesting experience. God plays games for different reasons than we do. He couldn’t care less about winning, He just wants to make you wonder more.</p><p>Like one time I asked God, through the muscle test, to direct me through a neighborhood. Just when I thought I was getting lost and this was stupid, I got dumped back on the main road not far from where I started. God has a sense of humor like that.</p><p>There’s nothing God <i>can’t</i> do, which sounds like crap in our minds when we want Him to do spectacular things, but He’s an absolute master at <i>restraint</i> and <i>subtlety</i>. If you get attuned to these things, then you can see God’s hand <b>everywhere</b>.</p>
