---
layout: post
title: Theists, how do you reconcile the existence of evil in the world and your belief in an omnibenevolent and omnipotent God?
date: 2018-04-08
---

<p>I’d say you should read the Bible sometime, but lots of atheists do read the Bible and still manage to come away confused about theodicy.</p><p>Instead I’ll point you to the always-relevant Agent Smith.</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/JrBdYmStZJ4?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="JrBdYmStZJ4" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/JrBdYmStZJ4/0.jpg');"></div><p>The architects of the Matrix tried to make a perfect world, but humans wouldn’t accept it. The long and the short of it is, humans are imperfect, and so any world they live in is going to be imperfect. Humans will find ways to be mean and nasty to each other.</p><p>God makes no attempt to stop people from being evil. He never does. He could, in the sense that you could stop your kid from putting his hand in a fire, but chooses not to. Instead he prefers to tell you what you should be doing, and if you do things according to His will, you’ll be rewarded, and if you don’t, you’ll be punished. You are lucky to be punished, as if you aren’t, then you remain confused about morality.</p><p>Does this make him not omnipotent or not omnibenevolent? No, it doesn’t. God demands that you build the life you want for yourself, not to do it for you. The fruits of your own labor are their own rich reward. God has created a world for you in which you can do that.</p><p>Can you have all of your silly little wishes fulfilled? No. But the Bible describes why your silly little wishes are wrong to pursue over the greater good of serving God. The Seven Deadly Sins are vices that invariably lead to greater immoralities.</p><p>If you serve God, then you are serving the greater good. God wants you to fight evil, not to expect Him to do it for you.</p>
