---
layout: post
title: What antidote worked for your loneliness? I spoke with several guys about this and all of them feel deep loneliness.
date: 2018-02-20
---

<p>What fixed it for me is realizing that it’s not loneliness at all I was dealing with, but rather wounded pride and a desire for status.</p><p>When I was younger I could be pretty outgoing, talking to just about anyone that struck my fancy. Crazy homeless guys, the dude that refilled the soda machines at school, the kid everyone else picked on.</p><p>I never considered myself lonely when I was younger, because I was always willing to seek out someone new, didn’t matter who it was, to make an authentic human connection with.</p><p>As I got older I started to get some success in life. I got an apartment, and suddenly I started feeling this weird sort of boredom. I wanted authentic human connection again, but I wasn’t really motivated to seek it out the same way that I used to.</p><p>I meditated on the feelings, and eventually got curious about it. Why is it that I’m feeling lonely, when there are literally thousands of people around me? I could go to the bar, or go to the coffee shop, and meet people. I had, in fact done that, all throughout my life.</p><p>When I got to the bottom of that ‘pit of despair’ I realized that this wasn’t about just connection. I wanted <b>acknowledgement</b> too. And not just acknowledgement from anyone. I wanted the sort of validation you see people getting on TV. From the sorts of people I wanted to be associated with. Not just hawt women that I wanted to sleep with. But from successful professionals and creative types.</p><p>In short, I had dreams. I wanted to find my <i>tribe</i>. Not living up to those dreams was making me feel something like loneliness, but was actually a trick being played on me by my own brain.</p><p>This realization was powerful for me. Now that I knew what it was I <i>really</i> wanted, I could start planning for it and coping with not actually having it at that time.</p><p>I eventually started a ‘real’ career, moved stations in life. People that used to look down on me now look up to me. I moved to a swanky apartment in the middle of town.</p><p>The feeling never went completely away, but I’m slowly chipping away at it. I started seeing a therapist to help me with interpersonal problems that I kept having and keep having.</p><p>What changed was that I no longer feel powerless against loneliness. I dug deep inside and turned those feelings into plans of action.</p><p>If you’re a man, and you want to feel like a man, then you can’t let loneliness stop you. Loneliness is putting the key to your happiness in the hands of other people. Don’t let it trick you into stasis.</p>
