---
layout: post
title: Can a being be omnipotent and omniscient at the same time?
date: 2018-11-14
---

<p>Yes. You can, even.</p><p>Learn to program and make a simulated world. Let’s make this interesting and say it’s Minecraft, you’re in creative mode, with all the mods with all the bells and whistles. You are, effectively, omniscient and omnipotent, your every wish in the world is reality.</p><p>There’s just a small problem. You can’t <i>think</i> your way into changes in the game world. You have to take time to gather the information you want to know and learn what’s needed to make your desired changes in the world.</p><p>Does this not sound like omnipotent omniscience to you? C’mon, use your imagination. You’re now a programmer who can make your own mods. You’ve spent 20 years learning the ins and outs of the game. While you were spending those 20 years, brain-computer interfaces have reached the point where you don’t have to spend any time anymore to make the changes you want to make.</p><p>Now there is nothing in between what you want and what you get. You’re a Minecraft God.</p><p>Yeah yeah, I can hear you, you don’t have to yell so loud, gosh. God of Minecraft isn’t the same as true omniscience or omnipotence. But it is, really. Isaac Asimov once said, any technology sufficiently advanced becomes indistinguishable from magic. Technology can make you a Minecraft God, and it can also make you a real-life god.</p><p>Materialists go on about the problem of evil like it presents some weird logical conundrum. But it doesn’t. A being can be omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent all at the same time, with a reality they have the tools and sophistication to do that with.</p><p>We can’t imagine how it works because that would be like a Minecraft guy trying to mine real diamond. “You mean I can’t just hit it with this gold pickaxe?” There’s another dimension God has access to, just like the extra dimension you have access to in order to impose your will on Minecraft Guy.</p>
