---
layout: post
title: If homosexuality is strictly considered a sin in Christianity, why are so many devout Christians committing homosexual acts?
date: 2018-04-25
---

<p>I don’t think anyone really reads the Bible before deciding the message it’s trying to send.</p><p>The story of Sodom and Gomorrah was a story of an entire town so embroiled in wickedness that God really needed to make an example of it. A gang of townsfolk decided they had to gang rape two strangers <i>just because they showed up in town</i>.</p><p>This makes Deliverance look like Barney the Dinosaur. If all you got from watching Deliverance was that having ghey secks was bad, then you didn’t really watch the movie, much less really read Sodom and Gomorrah. The Hebrew Bible is filled with people being unbelievably ugly and horrible to each other for the most selfish of reasons.</p><p>God prohibits idolatry not because he’s all that jealous, heck, he delivers His own people and the A<i>rk of the freaking Covenant</i> into the hands of their godless heathen enemies more than once. He prohibits idolatry among his chosen people because he has plans for them, he can’t mess around with destroying all that many cities. Nip it in the bud, deal with the finer points of the morality of the specific acts later, is his strategy.</p><p>Yet the only thing people take from the stories is the shallowest “lessons” imaginable. God set out the laws in Leviticus to forestall the setting in of this kind of abomination, not because these things were awful in and of themselves. They collect together and drive even more horrible behavior in <i>ancient Hebrews</i>. It’s quite arguable that two men living together as spouses today and contributing to society is perfectly within God’s mandate.</p><p>You need to use your brain to understand the true message of the stories in the Bible, not just follow the letter, because the letter wasn’t written for you and your society, but the people and the society of ancient Hebrews.</p>
