---
layout: post
title: Can there be an honest interpretation of Bible text by an atheist?
date: 2018-07-01
---

<p>It is <b>much</b> easier for an atheist to interpret the Bible than it is for a believer. It is for this reason I try to turn my believing mind off when I’m reading the Bible, and engage the skeptical, yet interested, one instead.</p><p>When you read without preconception you’re much closer to the mindset of those who wrote it intended you to be in.</p><p>My favorite books of the Bible, Samuel 1 and 2, appear to be intended to be enjoyed primarily as literature, the same way you’d enjoy a novel. Sure, there’s this grand overarching saga that the story fits into, but the story stands by itself.</p><p>Where it becomes difficult to interpret the Bible is where the genre isn’t anything the Western mind is familiar with, or engages themes that modern literature has long left behind. Sodom and Gomorrah is the most well-known example of this.</p><p>But there’s nothing that belief or lack thereof will do for you in helping you to understand it. Believers will be prone to simply making shit up to smooth over the lack of familiarity with the theme and message. Nonbelievers will correctly point to the moral questions being posed, but will typically point those moral questions at God rather than at men, where they belong.</p><p>Non-believers have a hard time with the concept of God being above reproach, as the giver of morality instead of its subject. Believers get caught up in received theological understandings that have little to do with the actual text. Who gets closer? Non-believers.</p>
