---
layout: post
title: Can you be in a constant meditated state without stop?
date: 2018-12-31
---

<p>When I first started meditating I found it extremely easy and pleasant. I was reading a lot of Osho at the time and Osho is a big fan of moving meditation. I was a big fan of long walks so I thought to combine the two.</p><p>It wasn’t long before every single time I’d leave the house for a walk, I’d immediately find myself in a meditative mood. Then soon I’d find the meditation sticking around while I’m not walking or sitting. Eventually I’d just be in a meditative state all the time.</p><p>From here I learned a new state, ‘above’ meditation, which I call ‘intense focus’. Being in this state too long uses up mental resources and so is unsustainable over the long term. But I can call it up easily whenever I feel I need to.</p><p>These days I’ve been finding myself ‘burning out’ my mental resources as I find deeper levels of surrender. Nowadays I call the state of intense mental activity “the onslaught.” I’m extremely comfortable with a baseline level of meditative calm. Perceptions arise, I process them, move smoothly from calm to joy and back to calm.</p><p>The onslaught changes this state of affairs. Attention is concentrated on a pinpoint and my mind experiences a rush of activity, more than it can comfortably process.</p><p>This state can be very magical, it’s a place of boundless possibility. I feel if I can learn to harness it, there’s very little I can’t accomplish. But if I didn’t have my baseline level of calm to retreat back into, I fear it would erode my sanity.</p>
