---
layout: post
title: Is there any evidence of an afterlife? Is there even the smallest bit of evidence?
date: 2018-05-28
---

<p>The one piece of evidence I’ve been able to find for an afterlife is post-death brain activity. A great big burst of brain activity happens right before it ceases in the brain. The idea here is that your entire afterlife is contained within that burst of activity. Being that a significant amount of lived experience can happen in small periods of time, there might be enough activity for a significant afterlife. This afterlife would be ‘dream-like’.</p><p>My mom told me that she’s seen articles that claimed that the brain can operate for 2 weeks (!) after the rest of the body dies. I’m rather skeptical of these claims.</p><p>I personally believe in an afterlife and I devote significant amounts of time to trying to work out what the fundamentally-relevant aspects to it are. Currently, I can’t see how literal eternity can happen in an afterlife, I feel like just about everyone would get bored of existence eventually.</p><p>I’ve detailed my thoughts on Christian Heaven here. I am very much on the fence as to how or if Heaven can actually last forever. I want to believe that it can, but the notion of reincarnation really throws a monkey wrench in my ideas.</p><p>I do think that one’s deeds and actions in this life has a fundamental impact on life ‘after’. I just struggle to understand exactly how. Christian Heaven is a very intriguing idea that I want to believe in, but I feel it’s tremendously ‘incomplete’. I keep working with the idea because, honestly, it’s the best we have.</p><p>But there’s just too many variables to be sure about anything.</p>
