---
layout: post
title: Is there a way not to feel worthless when seeing women that rejected you being happy with other guys?
date: 2018-01-23
---

<p>Sure, you can stop taking it personally when women reject you.</p><p>Stop for a second and think, what are the reasons you might reject a woman that wants to get to know you better? How many of those reasons do you think she should just go and feel totally worthless about herself for? Does the act of rejection automatically have to be a judgment?</p><p>I bet the above set of steps maybe helped a little, but didn’t totally fix the problem. This is because you’re not just dealing with judgment here, i.e. what you are imagining she feels about you, but also you’re dealing with <i>entitlement</i>, the fact that you believed you deserved to be with her. So seeing her not be with you and instead choosing other guys hurts your pride.</p><p>You can fix this the same way you dealt with judgment. Let’s say there was a girl that wanted you, but that you didn’t want. How would you want her to feel about the fact that you didn’t want her? Do you want her to feel bad about it? If so, then well you deserve to feel bad too, because you’re doing the same thing, you sick cad.</p><p>What if instead you wanted her to understand that you have a choice about who you want to spend your time and energy on? Her wanting you despite your wishes is not something she should do. You value yourself and your time, and you don’t want to spend it if you don’t want to.</p><p>You see, you and the lady you fancied are the same. You both want things, you just want different things. You would react the same way if you were in her position. If you are worthless, than she is worthless. Why do you want a worthless person?</p><p>The answer, of course, is that neither of you are worthless. You just wanted something that you couldn’t get, and are choosing the wrong way to deal with it. Just pick someone else to want and ask her nicely if she would like to spend time with you.</p>
