---
layout: post
title: Do you think you could get someone to convert to your religion? If so, how?
date: 2018-06-02
---

<p>I don’t really have a religion even though I still throw in with the Christians by identity. I’m a mystic, which means that everything religion and spirituality does, I figure out how to do myself without having to involve anyone else. This solves a lot of problems for me but creates others.</p><p>In the first place, the way I do things, has been slowly evolving for over ten years, growing apart from established frames. I’ve been influenced by Osho, influenced by Wicca, influenced by David Hawkins, but in each case I worked out exactly what I liked about them, took just those things for myself, and discarded the rest. As soon as it became possible for me to stop reading other people’s spiritual ideas and just use my own, I did that and never looked back.</p><p>I don’t think it would be a worthwhile pursuit to take on a student. Instead I offer people advice and wisdom to help them in their own path.</p><p>I’m somewhat similar to atheists in that thinking a certain way just turns me off. But rather than <i>belief</i> being the thing I really just don’t want to do, it’s <i>identification</i>. I don’t want to pin myself down as “the guy that does X.” This is why I took all those gurus, read them really carefully, then just threw everything out in favor of my own ideas. Suborning my identity to a guru, philosophy, or idea just isn’t for me.</p><p>This even includes my own ideas. I don’t hold on to them long enough for them to ossify into a coherent philosophy. They get thrown out as soon as they stop being useful. I invented a new kind of logic 5 years ago that I think is remarkable and amazing, but I can’t be bothered to work on it long enough to make it a coherent, teachable thing.</p><p>Conversion, getting someone to suborn their identity to an idea, whether my own or another’s creation, is completely antithetical to who I am and the iconoclasty I stand for.</p>
