---
layout: post
title: What could the highest level of human consciousness&#47;awareness look like?
date: 2018-06-14
---

<p>David Hawkins spoke of an ultimate limit to human consciousness, outlined a scale on which one could place oneself and others, and wrote of a method for locating things on it. I worked with his ideas for many years, ultimately rejecting them for my own. The best introduction to his ideas is <i>Power vs. Force</i>.</p><p>Once you get through that, there are some eight other books to go through. I have read perhaps 4 of them. The one that details his thoughts on higher states of consciousness is called <i>The Eye of the I: From Which Nothing is Hidden</i>. Here is an excerpt.</p><blockquote><p>Most difficult to describe is the interaction among people that moves onto a different level of communication. There is obvious love among everyone. Their speech, however, has changed so that all conversation has become loving and peaceful. The meaning of the words that are heard is not the same as others hear. It as though there are two different levels of consciousness going on, coming out of the same scenario of form and movement; two different scripts are being spoken by the same words. The meanings of words themselves have been transformed onto a different plane by the higher selves of the people involved with each other, and the communication of understanding is on a higher plane. At the same time, its is clear that the lower selves of the people are unaware of the communication simultaneously going on with their higher selves. People are as though hypnotized into believing the reality of the ordinary selves, which is merely the unwitting acting out of scenarios or roles, as in a movie.</p></blockquote><p>That’s just one paragraph. The whole book is exceedingly dense, but offers a lot of wisdom if you choose to dig in. Hawkins definitely isn’t an easy read, but enough people have found his writings useful enough that an entire publishing company has devoted itself to publishing his books, and only his books.</p><p>I hope one day I can be half as influential.</p>
