---
layout: post
title: Have you ever caught any candidate lying in an interview?
date: 2018-06-20
---

<p>One time I was interviewing for a rank and file job at a movie theatre. I thought I would just earn a little extra money while I figured out what to do next. A friend of mine was the human resources manager so I thought the interview would be a shoe-in. Honestly if it wasn’t, I didn’t want the job anyway.</p><p>By that point in my life, I’d had a lot of jobs. So much that I really couldn’t fit them all on an application. The narrative I’d told myself was that I never get fired from jobs. Which was mostly true, except for one exception.</p><p>One of the questions on the application was, “have you ever gotten fired?” I of course checked no. Certainly not from any of the jobs I listed on my application. But the coffee shop I met my HR buddy, whose reference I was relying on for an easy shoe-in to that sweet sweet movie industry money, I actually worked there, a few years ago.</p><p>I’d been in the military, I worked construction, I thought all those other jobs I had were way more important than the three weeks I worked at that coffee shop. But I got fired from that job, and I happened into the only job interview with the only people that would ever have found that out.</p><p>I didn’t go out there with the <i>intent</i> to deceive, but I ended up lying anyway, and it got caught out. I learned three things that day. One, that you can lie while still trying to be honest. Two, that I just wasn’t cut out for service work.</p><p>Third, my self narrative about never getting fired needed to change. I got fired plenty from there on out, and each and every time I at once deserved it, desired it, and never sweated it. There’s <b>always</b> another job.</p>
