---
layout: post
title: If we are not our thoughts, emotions, accomplishments, special talents, occupations, responsibilities, or temporary roles, then who are we?
date: 2018-11-07
---

<p>The concept of identity is fluid and diffuse. Fluid means it shifts around and doesn’t stay put. Diffuse means you can spread the identity around and put different amounts of it into different things.</p><p>The reality is you <b>are</b> your thoughts, emotions, accomplishments, special talents, occupations, responsibilities, temporary roles. You’re not one of these things, you’re all of them. There’s a little bit of your identity imbued in <i>everything</i>. Some things have a lot of your identity residing in it.</p><p>If you’re sitting on a chair, then then chair is more a part of you than when you get up. You have a lap while you are sitting, but not when you are standing. The things you describe as <i>having</i> have less of your identity imbued then the things you describe as <i>being</i>. So if you have a drug addiction, you’re less identified with that addiction than if you say you are a drug addict.</p><p>Nonduality means that an individual does not recognize a <i>singular</i> identity as being anything more than a mere illusion. There is no subject and object, only existence. In theory this works. In practice minds cannot escape themselves, meaning the illusion of self persists, the mind doing the thinking carries on with self even as the being disavows there is a thing called self.</p><p>Self being an illusion doesn’t mean that it doesn’t exist. Illusion isn’t a disavowal of <i>existence</i>, it’s a clarification of <i>essence</i>. When you watch a movie on the television, you’re not watching actual people doing actual things, you’re watching a coordinated illusion of people doing things.</p><p>Such is what you are. A coordinated illusion, some parts of which are ‘on screen’ while other parts are ‘off screen’.</p><p>Through meditation, self-inquiry, and surrender, you can bring your mind to accept this reality. Most people claiming enlightenment are decent at the self-inquiry part, but rather bad at the meditation and surrender parts. I don’t consider this enlightenment, to me surrender is fundamental. Without it, enlightenment is turned into religious dogma like all the others.</p>
