---
layout: post
title: Have you determined your own answers to what happens when you die that is different from main stream religions? Do you accept some parts, and reject others?
date: 2018-10-31
---

<p>It took me many years before I could fully accept the prospect of an afterlife. I have no clue <i>exactly</i> how such a thing works, but my ideas are predicated on two principles.</p><ol><li>Universal benevolence. What happens to people happens according to the best possible outcome to the individual.</li><li>Personal wishes and beliefs are respected. If you want oblivion, you’ll have oblivion. If you want heaven then you’ll go to heaven.</li></ol><p>All other possibilities concerning the afterlife that do not respect these two principles do not seem worth considering and can be reduced down to glorified dreams.</p><p>An example is the common conception of Christian Hell. If it exists, failure to fit into the two principles dooms it to silliness. Why in the world would anyone maintain such an elaborate enterprise for punishment for moral failings? What’s the point?</p><p>No, people that go to Hell go there because they want to be there, and they leave when they want to leave, having learned what they needed to learn. You can tell all kinds of cool, interesting stories in the fantasy genre about various aspects of demonology and how such creatures can fit in with a universally benevolent moral framework.</p><p>My rule of thumb for spiritual plausibility is simple. If you can tell an entertaining story in that setting, then it’s something that can actually happen in the afterlife. Stories are interesting when they draw out unseen aspects of self to be understood and power derived from them.</p><p>A demon can serve as a moral mirror through which a person can see their own failings. In order to tell an interesting story concerning a demon, the person has to either be tricked or otherwise believe that the demon is a good thing for them when really it’s not.</p><p>I imagine that the afterlife is just filled with people who get really interested in this mechanism of trickery, so once they gain some prowess over form in the afterlife realm, they wander around looking for souls to trick.</p><p>As to the actual realm, I believe that the afterlife’s “physicality” resembles a dreamscape with an important distinction. In a dream, exerting <i>conscious</i> agency can change the dreamscape, but also tends to bring about awakening. But in the afterlife, there’s nothing to wake up from and go to. Exerting will actually changes the terrain. You can let go and float around, or you can decide you want to be somewhere and there you are.</p><p>In a trance state, like a dream only you’re conscious, your agency is blunted by the fact that you just aren’t a native, you’re only partially there, not wholly there. The afterlife is like being here, but also in trance. The only ‘physical’ rules you have to abide by are either set by the conscious will of the other agencies ‘around’ you, or ones you believe in yourself.</p><p>I believe there’s a realm ‘higher’ than the one we exist in between material existences, where things like God and our souls reside. We can’t explore that realm directly, because we’re essentially projections of our souls into this space. As well ask a TV character to jump out of the screen.</p><p>Eventually, we ‘wake up’ from being-existence into this realm, I envision the projection process as a ‘birthing’ process. Then we become the God we now worship. I see this as 5 dimensional reality, whereas the realm between material worlds is 4 dimensional reality.</p>
