---
layout: post
title: Why does God make almost all faithful Christians suffer, and blesses the ones that truly believe they serve Him, but don&#39;t even know Him (according to the Bible and from the omnipresent, omniscient, omnipotent and omnibenevolent point of view)?
date: 2018-05-29
---

<p>The world works the way it works. It just so happens that it’s easier to make a quick buck through charlatanism and chicanery than it is through faithful deeds and works. So the charlatans of the world get rewarded by the world. It’s always been this way, modernity hasn’t changed that at all. The unscrupulous can enrich themselves at the expense of others. God doesn’t prevent that, He expects us to do our part to prevent it ourselves. He most often works His magic <i>through us</i>.</p><p>But when it comes to the inner qualities that makes one’s life <i>subjectively</i> better, being faithful vastly outstrips any amount of sinful predilections. You can see this all over stories. The successful person having a hollow marriage and life. Ebenezer Scrooge living a lonely, miserable life despite his fortune.</p><p>What God promised Christians was that through Jesus, all things are possible. Jesus can take your suffering away if you ask Him to. You have to welcome and accept any intervention and be grateful, because it’s through gratitude that greater gifts are possible.</p><p>And sometimes you just have to realize that suffering is just something God’s called upon you to do. It’s these people who build up spiritual strength, grit, and determination to persevere. And it tends to be after these traits are earned that deliverance from the suffering happens.</p><p>Jesus isn’t a magic credit card that you can swipe to buy your way out of trouble. Deal with the trouble yourself, learn from it, grow from it, ask Jesus to teach you and watch yourself grow as a person, grow so strong that it doesn’t feel like suffering anymore. That’s as much a deliverance as anything else.</p>
