---
layout: post
title: How can an enlightened person acknowledge that they are enlightened? Isn&#39;t such an acknowledgement fundamentally against the state of being enlightened?
date: 2018-10-17
---

<p>Why would it be? You’re either correct or incorrect. Making the statement, whether it’s correct or not, bears no consequence on its actual truth. Enlightenment is not the same thing as humility or meekness.</p><p><i>You</i> can use the context surrounding a person’s claim of enlightenment to help ascertain whether they’re actually enlightened or not. Do their actions match their words? Are they looking to get anything out of you with their claim?</p><p>Whether I tell people that I consider myself enlightened or not has nothing to do with whether I think they’ll believe me or what I think it’ll do to their perception of me. If the topic of discussion rolls around to enlightenment then I’ll make the statement because it’s relevant. My enlightenment simply isn’t relevant to most conversations.</p><p>And whether they’re actually enlightened really doesn’t make all that much of a difference to you. I’ve met many enlightened people, and they didn’t have much more to teach me than the unenlightened people I’ve gotten to know. The higher forms are a little more interesting because these people carry an aura that can be useful or interesting to see and feel.</p><p>I find the New Testament interesting for it’s ‘nakedness’. Jesus didn’t mess around, he went to people, told them he was the Son of Man, did some cool stuff, then told them to follow him. If they didn’t do that it wasn’t because Jesus was too pushy. Rejecting Jesus’ claims was the same as rejecting Jesus. There wasn’t any of this faffing about where Jesus worried about how his claim is going to be taken or what they’re going to think about him.</p><p>That’s how it should be I think. State your truth boldly and have authentic conversations.</p><p>I think we as a society have gotten perhaps a bit too self-conscious.</p>
