---
layout: post
title: Why is there a “New Testament”, when the original “Old Testament” was, and is sufficient?
date: 2018-06-20
---

<p>The New Testament was made possible by the unique situation Jews found themselves after the Romans conquered their lands in the first century BC. Their Davidian line of kings died out and they had been living under the rule of foreigners for hundreds of years.</p><p>The books of the Maccabees, I’ve learned that there are 8 of them, only two of which are in the Christian Bible, the final <i>historical</i> books of the Jewish Bible, deal with the Hebrews chafing under foreign rule. They end extremely close in time to the gospels, only about a hundred years pass in between them.</p><p>The Maccabees were able to earn Jewish self-rule after revolting from the Seleucid empire. It didn’t last long. Rome conquers Judea and adds it to its fast growing list of provinces. In fact, the only reason that the Maccabees were successful was because Rome had already done the bulk of the work in weakening the Seleucids. Conquering the lands of Israel was just mopping things up.</p><p>This <b>had</b> to have been extremely demoralizing for Jews. They revolted one more time, taking advantage of Roman political infighting after Caesar’s death, but once Marc Antony reestablished control over the polity, their new kingdom was swiftly crushed and Roman rule was reestablished.</p><p>There are no more histories in any Jewish Bible, and while I’d <i>like</i> to say that the reason is because the New Testament <b>is</b> that next book, the gospels are <i>biography</i>, not <i>history</i>. They focus on the story of one man, not on the history of the Jewish people. What little history is there, that there was a Roman king, is focused on the Jesus story and not on chronicling what was going through the minds of the Jewish nation.</p><p>No, the real reason there aren’t any more Jewish histories in the Bible is because the Romans razed the Temple of the Mount to the ground, and slaughtered everyone they could get their hands on, scattering the Jewish intelligentsia that hadn’t gotten killed. There was no one left to act as a canonical authority, and so no new canon was decided on.</p><p>Remember how I said there were 8 books of the Maccabees? Two are in the Christian Bible, three in the Hebrew Bible. The rest were left out. How do they decide what makes it in? Canonical authority, just like George Lucas got to decide what is Star Wars canon, until he sold that right to Disney, you need a group of people entrusted with the task of making sure the stories are cohesive and as close to the actual truth as possible.</p><p>It was this group of people that the Romans took great care to kill when they reconquered Judea. The whole point of razing the Temple was to erase Jewish identity off the face of the planet. <i>This is what Rome did</i>. They were conquerors. Imperial peace requires <b>one</b> identity, and Rome demanded it to be <i>Roman</i>.</p><p>Some of the remaining Jews got together and tried to make sense of their predicament. There was <b>every</b> reason to believe that, as told in the end of Jeremiah, God really had left the Jews and there would be no further resurgence of Jewish power unless they change their ways.</p><p>Here’s how I think it went down. Holy men speaking revelations and cataclysms were legion in the days after Roman reassertion. The people that wanted to guide the Jews into reasserting an identity for themselves wanted to look for a new kind of prophet. Jesus’s apostles were still spreading the story of this remarkable prophet who willingly went to his own death without argument or fuss.</p><p>It was <b>exactly</b> what the chroniclers were looking for. Jewish acceptance of the need for acquiescence to foreign rule. And so New Testament was born. The events of Jesus’s life and Jesus’s own personality aligned perfectly with the story that these particular Jews were wanting to tell about themselves.</p><p>What happens next is the story of the split between the Christians and the Jews, or seen in a different way, how some Jews came to call themselves Christian, which is quite remarkable in its own right. But it’s a story for another answer.</p>
