---
layout: post
title: Was Boethius a compatibilist? He said that God knows in advance what we&#39;re doing, but we still choose for ourselves. Is he combining free will and predestination? What is the proper name of this position?
date: 2018-10-18
---

<p>Yes, this is compatibilism.</p><p>Theists in general, particularly the Abrahamic variety, either have compatibilist views on free will, or they deny determinism in favor of free will. Free will is an inescapable part of religion, and generally the idea of an omniscient God entails that God can predict what you’re going to do in any given situation.</p><p>Compatibilism is the belief that these two positions are not mutually exclusive. They way they do this is by defining a free act as one that’s <i>unconstrained</i>. A motive can be predetermined according to rules, but the predetermination of the motive does not invalidate the freedom of the act to choose.</p><p>If I eat because I’m hungry, that choice to eat is not any less freely chosen because the motivation to eat, that I hadn’t eaten for some hours, could have been predetermined. I could have chosen not to eat, nothing’s <i>constraining</i> me from making the choice not to eat.</p><p>God wants us to be more good. This means that we freely choose to not hurt others out of selfishness. People who don’t want to believe in God consider the fact that God doesn’t <i>force</i> us to be good as some kind of proof that He doesn’t exist. But it all makes sense when you think about it. God places various dilemmas in our way, demands that we make the right choice, but doesn’t force us to.</p>
