---
layout: post
title: Is life hell?
date: 2018-09-26
---

<p>From a certain perspective yes.</p><p>If you told me hell exists and then asked me if I’d like to go there, I’d be so excited I wouldn’t know what to do with myself. I want to know exactly how in the heck they manage to pull off organized torture at all, much less torture that is supposed to last forever.</p><p>The concept is virtually impossible to make work in a <i>story,</i> let alone actual existence. To demonstrate what I mean here, let’s carefully examine the most interesting depiction of hell I’ve ever run across, that of Orwell’s <i>1984</i>.</p><p>It’s hard to articulate just how depressing the book is without doing a full plot summary, but basically the government invented and is in the process of implementing a method to completely remove altruism from the human race.</p><p>It’s telling that the author saw fit to have the protagonist come to <i>love</i> that government at the end of the book. This is not a population that is being tortured, this is a population that has been conditioned to not even know what torture is. The only people with that conception are the government doing it, and us.</p><p>And that’s the problem with hell. As soon as it becomes normal, it stops being hell and just starts being everyday, mundane. Hell has to retain a mystique in order for it to keep being scary. Because eventually the smart beings living there are going to build order around the crappy parts so that they’re not so random anymore.</p><p>Once order is built, then hope is created. Once hope is created, then the story dynamics change to a standard adventure story and the hell is transformed into a ‘mere’ underworld, a place to go to find power and destiny.</p><p>Real hell would have to find a way to keep the beings in it from building their own order and so way to manage the hellishness under their own power. So I’m unconvinced that the standard given version of hell as a place of eternal suffering is a really workable concept outside the realm of horror.</p><p>But there’s another version of hell that is often talked about. The basic idea here is that separation from God is itself hell. Which might mean we’re all toiling through hell until we die, at which point we go be with God. But usually along with this conception comes the idea of building the kingdom of Heaven right here on Earth.</p><p>This is what Jesus was teaching, that if you can learn to love and cooperate and share with each other and allow Jesus to be the lawgiver, then it’s like you’re living in Heaven, but still existing right here on Earth.</p><p>This can be as real as you want it to be, it’s easiest if you convert to Christianity, but the principles don’t require literal belief in the divinity of Christ. Any meditative / spiritual process can bring you to a point where you understand what’s taught and can make it work in your life and so derive personal power from it.</p><p>Once integrated, spiritual power becomes the new normal, and being separated from it feels like hell. The spiritual term for this is the Dark Night.</p><p>Having spiritual power and the ability to rely on it puts me in the unique position of being able to see how everyone that doesn’t have this capacity to walk with God as people that are going through hell. A never-ending hell that you’re luckily unaware of, especially given how much work I put into building my own Heaven.</p>
