---
layout: post
title: Why is magic bad (in the Bible) and not science?
date: 2018-04-09
---

<p>Because it seeks to appropriate God’s gifts to yourself. So instead of thanking God for your good fortune, as you should, as everything comes from God, you start thinking that you’re better than God, that you don’t need God anymore.</p><p>This falls under the sin of <i>idolatry</i>, the worship of false gods. Back in Bronze Age Middle East, Christianity and modern society was not as well settled. Mysticism could mess up your brain and cause what today we call psychosis. If you started proselytizing false ideals, you could easily destabilize an entire city. A destabilized city was easily conquered.</p><p>So as a result the Bible made it a cardinal sin. Nice, orderly cities run by pious philosopher kings was the aim of early Judaic theology. It’s hard for God to enact His plan when His followers are constantly pulled between competing visions.</p><p>It’s not so much that God was afraid of black magic. But people whose minds were perverted by selfish wickedness didn’t just stop at casting spells. They schemed and plotted to acquire followers and power to themselves. Follow the story of Jeremiah carefully to see exactly how and why God condemned the city of Judah. The corruption pervaded the entire city, and while its source wasn’t explicitly stated, one can easily imagine one black magician gaining the ear of the king, and destroying the godliness of the whole city.</p><p>Science is perfectly compatible with Christianity, it doesn’t seek to replace good Christian morality with false worship. In fact, it’s perfectly in line with God’s commandment to master the Earth.</p>
