---
layout: post
title: Can the high level of consciousness lead to higher extra sensory perception?
date: 2018-12-20
---

<p>Sure. The main problem is that extra-sensory perception really isn’t all that useful once developed. Either it’s hazy or indistinct, or if it’s vivid and clear it’s not showing you anything real.</p><p>Typically you get a few early ‘beginner’s luck’ wins and then subsequent tries just get harder and less useful. You have to make a decision as to whether to keep trying to develop the skills or not. Some people are natural psychics and won’t have any trouble developing the skillset. It just gets ‘turned on’ one day.</p><p>Using your ESP skills is not a good way to make a living. Leaving aside the moral perspective, any actual service you can offer people is more akin to psychotherapy than it is to, say, data recovery. Since it’s not an exact science, and results aren’t verifiable, your business will rely heavily on marketing / advertising, and having to market yourself <i>sucks,</i> and no ESP is powerful enough to just do it for you. If it’s really for you, you’ll slog through or the universe will just make it easy, but it’s not for everyone.</p><p>I’d call it a sucker’s game but developing those skills can really expand your sense of what’s possible. The person you help out most with your brand new ‘radio’ is yourself. The more you work on it, the less things tend to surprise you. Reading people’s intentions and motivations becomes almost stupidly easy.</p><p>This dynamic isn’t just due to ESP, but also due to just the effects of having a high level of consciousness. You just see more, make sense of more. The whole being is upgraded.</p><p>Have you seen the fantasy trope of a warrior that was big and strong, but slow? This doesn’t really happen with consciousness and perception. You can’t really be crappy at one kind of perception but great at another. When you have high enough consciousness, ability flows together. If you could have seen through ESP that, say, your mom was cheating on your dad, then you really shouldn’t have needed ESP for that, normal perception will let you pick up the signs and put them together to make the conclusion. And you need your normal perception to verify anything ESP tells you.</p><p>Consciousness feeds into everything you do. Before I started developing my perceptive skills, I thought for some reason ESP wouldn’t work, to, say, fix my computer. I was wrong about that, I found out that I could literally meditate my way to fixing a problem. When I started to work on doing that faster and better, I realized I was just solving problems the same way anybody solves problems. You just normally don’t think you’re using ESP to solve them. But what’s the subconscious flash of insight that we all rely on so much if not ESP?</p>
