---
layout: post
title: Is religion a prerequisite to live a moral life?
date: 2018-05-25
---

<p>No, but it loses a lot of it’s depth when you do.</p><p>Humans have an inborn sense of altruism from which we derive our morality. It comes from a particular part of our brain, called the limbic system and enables social behavior. The vast majority of mammals have a limbic system, it’s not unique to humans. Mammals’ closest relatives, the reptiles, don’t have limbic systems and as such cannot feel more complex emotions than pleasure or pain.</p><p>The part of the brain we do share with reptiles and birds is called the basal ganglia, colloquially called, of course, the <i>reptile brain</i>. Birds have had 300 million years to evolve apart from reptiles and mammals, and some birds have quite advanced brains, though very very different in structure from ours.</p><p>The basal ganglia can completely override and turn off both the limbic system and the neocortex, which is the part of the mammal brain associated with higher brain function including thought. This rarely happens nowadays in humans, but must have happened quite often in prehistory.</p><p>Morality is, essentially, the human social behavior associated with avoiding the overriding of higher brain functions by the lower. The lower brain functions are <b>only</b> concerned with survival, not with thriving, and humans thrive best when working together in peace and harmony.</p><p>Religion arose with higher thought processes, not a single paleolithic tribe has been found without some sort of shared spirituality, religion if you will. We worked extremely closely to each other and our spiritual beliefs reflected that. The morality of the tribe was a code of ethics that allowed everyone to get on the same page about what behavior is allowed and what behavior isn’t.</p><p>The rise of religion and the rise of civilization are one in the same. Religion collected all of the common people’s shared wisdoms and understandings and ideas about how to get along and needs. It took a long, long time for humanity to claw its way out of prehistory and build a durable civilization. Religion was instrumental in helping it do that.</p><p>Removing religion and scripture, which collected moral wisdoms in written format, from the equation is removing tens of thousands of years of human deliberation and consideration and evolution from the table. Sure, we have humanistic underpinnings for deeper philosophical rooting of moral truths, but there’s a lot that that approach misses.</p><p>For example, in Proverbs, it’s stated that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.” This is a really deep statement that can be unpacked for a lot more than the words seem to mean, especially when you take into account the Bronze Age-societies these words were written in. Proverbs goes on to draw out an intricate examination of how to approach wisdom, the depth of which is really hard to find outside of an academic philosophical paper.</p><p>It’s this sort of thing that leads theists to the erroneous conclusion that religion is inseparable from morality. The moral truths expounded on in the Bible are really, really, really good, when approached properly, and the narrative stories that tell the embellished history of the Hebrews fit in with this vision of morality. Not everything carries over well into the 20th century from 3000 years ago, but you can see how Bronze Age cautionary tales such as Sodom and Gomorrah might have been necessary to tame the fiery emotions of people who just didn’t have any kinds of literacy or entertainment aside from endless farming and war.</p><p>The fact that we don’t need the sorts of moral rules set out in Leviticus any more is dealt with in the New Testament, which re-envisions God’s plan so it remains relevant to the race of Roman city-dwellers that the Hebrews eventually became. Again, here, you see aspects of the narrative that are intended to deal with the crazier aspects of our nature, like Revelation, along with deeper truths that approach the mystical in the gospels themselves.</p><p>This all has the effect of knitting society together with the thread of a shared set of cultures and values and traditions, which we’re in such a huge rush to throw out in favor of a ‘universal’ understanding cleansed of its depth and beauty. So we reinvent Christian morals without benefit of the source materials.</p><p>All regions in the world have their folk religions, and all of these religions collect and contain folk stories and myths that date back thousands of years, that are told <i>for the express purpose</i> of conveying moral truth.</p><p>So sure, you can base your morality off of the universal mammalian altruistic instinct, but that only gets you to prehistoric morality. For deeper examination, you need to either rely on religion or academic philosophy, which itself evolved out of religious institutions.</p>
