---
layout: post
title: What&#39;s your opinion on incels?
date: 2018-05-10
---

<p>They’re modern-day heretics, preaching openly against the feminist orthodoxy.</p><p>Back in medieval times, social cohesion required everyone to toe the line on certain inalienable truths. To go outside the prescribed lines that society gave you, you needed to have extraordinary facility with language. The best satirists could weave two totally different stories with the exact same prose.</p><p>One story was read by the establishment, concerned with the unsavory governmental task of ensuring that nobody goes outside the established bounds of religious morality. They would find a pleasing, even flattering, treatment of the social order and hierarchy of the day.</p><p>The other was read by people that had the clarity of vision to see past the orthodoxy. They found vicious truths being cloaked under the flattery.</p><p>The brilliance of the satirists is that often times, even the orthodox censors were aware of these truths. It would become a cat and mouse game between the satirists and the censors, the satirists would toe ever closer to the line of heresy without going over it. The censors would be in a heap of shit if they just carted the satirist away and put him in chains for no reason. This is the stuff revolts are made of.</p><p>Social views slowly changed as a result of this vibrant discourse.</p><p>Incels don’t bother with the wit or subtlety, and just expect solutions to their problems to show up at their doorstep just because they think it’s justified. This isn’t how society works, it’s never been how society works. You have to convince people to do the things you want them to do, not just expect them to.</p><p>Incels know this, but persist anyway. This is precisely heresy, that’s exactly what it was in premodern times, a railing against the social order just because it doesn’t serve your needs.</p><p>We used to publicly execute people for doing this sort of thing, by stoning or burning. It wasn’t even the censors that had to do it either. The whole town would participate.</p><p>These infidels should consider themselves lucky.</p>
