---
layout: post
title: How should I pray&#47;worship if I don’t conform or believe in a specific religion, but do believe in some higher power?
date: 2018-06-07
---

<p>However you like! Your time on the cushion is your own and you can make up anything you want to.</p><p>I personally love the grey area between meditation and prayer. You can start off with any guided visualization meditation, YouTube has them on tap for half off, do that for about a week or two, then progress to doing the same meditations without the training wheels.</p><p>That means sitting or lying down alone and in quiet and going through the same acts you did from the guided one. Do this for maybe a week, then order another guided session from the bartender and work with that one the same way you did the first one.</p><p>Then stop using guided sessions, drinking in a bar is expensive, yo! Start looking up ideas on how to meditate, just use Google. Take the ideas and work them into your sessions.</p><p>Eventually your mind will want to start doing its own thing when you meditate. This is the moment you’ve been waiting for, don’t let it go! Oh wait, it slipped. Yeah, what I call undirected trance experience stays hard until you’ve been doing meditation for a long long long time. Just keep practicing and you’ll have some cool experiences.</p><p>But wait! I hear you saying, I wanted prayer, not meditation! Well sit down and let granddaddy Vinny blow your mind. Prayer is how <i>religion</i> tells you you should <b>meditate</b>. Without a religion, you should just meditate and explore your higher power and your relationship to it while you’re meditating.</p><p>You can pick religious-themed meditations if you want too. Christian themes are fun.</p>
