---
layout: post
title: Are you magical?
date: 2018-05-21
---

<p>I used to be.</p><p>Magic, fundamentally, is the use of conscious mental resources in order to affect the world in a supernatural way. You can further subdivide magic into <i>natural</i> vs. <i>esoteric</i> formulations. Natural magick users don’t try to fine-tune outcomes, they ‘merely’ channel some kind of non-physical force to affect the world, the details are left to that same force. An example of this is Intention-Manifestation (I-M)</p><p>Esoteric magick users build up elaborate systems of rules concerning what works and how. An example of this is alchemy.</p><p>I’ve dabbled in both, and of the two kinds of magick, natural magick is more effective <i>overall</i>, while esoteric magick is better when it comes to <i>controlling</i> your outcome.</p><p>Personally, I don’t like the whole rigmarole of specifying what I want from the world. So I don’t practice any kind of magic.</p><p>Affecting the world through non-physical means is something we’re all doing in one way or another. Our minds affect virtually everything about life. Magic simply takes this and concentrates and focuses it to drive a <i>particular</i> outcome.</p><p>What happens when you <b>don’t</b> try to drive a particular outcome, but still allow for the possibility for interesting and amazing things to happen, then your subconscious is free to bring all kinds of stuff to you.</p><p>When supernatural outcomes are not consciously chosen, we tend to call it <i>divine</i> operation. My life is a constant flow of divine events, the only thing I need to consciously do is watch, and enjoy.</p>
