---
layout: post
title: Are enlightened people ever sad and&#47;or feel a lacking of quality from the society around them?
date: 2018-10-08
---

<p>I am very very often sad. And especially when I was younger, I often had the feeling that I was missing something. It’s often these feelings that leads one to conduct a spiritual inquiry. In my case I had to look at all the circumstances surrounding my life, my own responses to them, how different they are from how other people respond to similar situations.</p><p>I can’t say precisely how newly enlightened people experience their individual differences from society. I can say that many unenlightened people mistake the defense techniques they’ve naturally developed as smart children to facilitate the handling of crappy situations where they’re at the mercy of crappy people as enlightenment.</p><p>These defense techniques often lead people into an emotionally blunted experience because they necessarily involve turning the part of your brain that engages emotionally off. It’s hard to learn how to turn back on, so the full depth and color of emotional existence is denied to these people. Therapeutic techniques are still in their infancy and are expensive and there’s no real standards for what it means to ‘get better’ so such people are generally stuck with it unless they can bring themselves to expand their search past the rational and into the spiritual.</p><p>But not all spiritual searches or inquiries lead to enlightenment. Most of the time, they lead to small epiphanies which make life a little easier to stomach. This is because the inquiry rarely goes beyond the self. You’ll never seek out a teacher and perhaps will distrust the very idea, or even if you don’t, will allow skepticism to keep you in a mundane frame of mind. Inertia will keep you in place rather than build up and allow you to relax knowing you’re still moving forward.</p><p>If you are capable of becoming enlightened, then you will already naturally be able to move past the ugliness and defensiveness of one’s youth and become an emotionally healthy and functioning adult. The spiritual search has to be conducted with the aim of expanding the mind and freeing it from the deepest fetters, fetters that hold us all down, not just those who had crappy childhoods. If all you do is focus on your childhood, than the truly deep stuff will never be dealt with.</p><p>Are you sad or are you depressed? If you are sad then dive into the sadness, explore sad movies and music and learn how to enjoy the catharsis they provide. If you are depressed then sleep deprivation is my go-to intervention. I have been depressed many many times in my 20s, sleep deprivation never failed to shock me out of the funk and get my brain functioning again.</p><p>About 48–72 hours of no sleep, once exhaustion overtakes and you <i>have</i> to sleep, the inflammation compounds keeping your brain from functioning flush out. I’ve gone from hard depression to sublime euphoria in the space of a few days. Give it a try.</p><p>If you are feeling like you are different from those around you, ask yourself if it’s not loneliness you’re feeling. If it is, then I suggest finding a coffee shop or bar or church to start going to regularly. It needs to have people that are interested in making a social connection with anybody who shows up. This is, again, something that’s never failed for me.</p><p>The difference between being enlightened and not being enlightened is not that the enlightened do not feel the same emotions for the same reasons as the unenlightened person. They do. The difference is in the reaction to those problems. An enlightened person will not hesitate to take decisive action to correct the problems that arise, they don’t allow temporary states to keep them from coming up with possible solutions to try.</p><p>They don’t allow the state of their mind, to become the state of their being. Because the will is stronger than the mind, and the mind is stronger than the body. Temporary states pass.</p>
