---
layout: post
title: What is the thing that affirm for you the existence of God?
date: 2018-07-13
---

<p>It is not one thing that affirms for me the existence of God but the entirety of my daily existence, which is in constant communication with the divine.</p><p>Several years ago, I used to do muscle testing. Muscle testing allows you to directly interact with your subconscious. Your brain sends a signal to the muscles telling them to respond strong or weak. When I first started doing it I was immensely curious as to whether I was communicating with something ‘outside’ or not. I occasionally tried to ‘trick’ it into acting completely predictably.</p><p>Eventually that all became moot when the test started to mess with me back. This indicated to me that there was something intelligent doing the responding. One of the most memorable moments in my entire life came when I performed the muscle test with the question in mind of “are you intelligent?” and got a ‘yes’ response.</p><p>One thing that became almost immediately clear to me was that whatever was responding to the test was reading my thoughts, it knew what I was thinking, at all times. I tried many times to determine the ‘boundaries’ of the things it was capable of answering for me. One time I tried having it direct me through a neighborhood by asking it whether I should turn left or right at any particular intersection. I started to give up and just use GPS when I found myself back on the main road a block from where I started.</p><p>The test never became a completely reliable source of information for me, but it’s always an interesting experience whenever I do choose to ask something of it. I came up with a concept of a long ‘chain’ of consciousness that goes from our conscious thoughts all the way to God, through a variety of agents that are willing to communicate with you, starting with the subconscious. When I did a muscle test, I was directly querying my subconscious, which could then pass the question on to God if it felt the need to.</p><p>What’s called ‘magick’ is when you push aside the subconscious and attempt to channel the divine directly. I’ve done a lot of magick in my life, and over months of careful record keeping and practice, realized that my subconscious was already doing that before I decided to take the reins and my big hairy brain hands sticking their dirty fingers in the works was just getting in the way. Having the subconscious be your go-between is an extremely powerful technique, and muscle testing allowed me to explore this dynamic in detail.</p><p>I eventually stopped muscle testing. Why? Well at some point I started getting a sense for the answer I was going to get from the test before I performed it. I performed thousands of tests to get to this point. What I first started using it for, Hawkins’ scale of consciousness calibrations, often required 10 or more tests to nail down a particular number.</p><p>I just now asked how many tests I’ve done since the beginning, I got 3621. To obtain that number, I started with 100, got a yes, then 1000, then got yes, then 2, then 3 thousand, got yeses, then 4 thousand, then got a no. So I knew it was between 3 and 4 thousand. That’s a total of 16 muscle tests to obtain that particular number.</p><p>David Hawkins claimed you could use the muscle test to count the number of hairs on your head, but when I tried to do stuff like that, I’d get one right answer but the rest would be crap. Eventually I learned to not be so demanding. I could count marbles in a jar, but really what’s the point other than to brag that you can do it? This is the issue I have with guys like James Randi who insist on removing every last little bit of mystery from the divine. Why in the world would God <b>want</b> to play ball with Randi? Maybe God wants to chastise spiritual posers and Randi’s His tool for doing that.</p><p>No, God refuses human definition. That’s one of the main lessons I learned. I was doing so many tests that my fingers were getting sore. When they felt better I’d go right back to testing. If I could define God and the spiritual and the possibility space, then I wouldn’t have needed to constantly test. I’d have figured it all out in the first few months.</p><p>But I never did. The mystery remained, despite having <i>all the tools at my disposal to completely eliminate that mystery and the willingness and encouragement to actually do that</i>. I investigated everything. For awhile I was using the test to communicate with angels, demons, succubuses, whatever I felt like messing with.</p><p>I even played with letting an entity possess my body. I was at a crowded bar and I got the idea of letting something possess me. I thought and hoped it would make me more social. Instead I grabbed a girl’s ass. Not just any girl either. I grabbed a mean guy’s girlfriend’s ass. She told him what I did and he confronted me. When I didn’t apologize he punched me in the nose. Not hard enough to break it but hard enough to make blood pour out. He went easy on me.</p><p>No, I wasn’t disillusioned with the divine, that’s not why I stopped doing muscle tests. The divine remained as frustratingly stubborn as it always was, forever reticent to open the floodgates to true power. The stubbornness only made me want to do it more. And I was turning into a testing junkie.</p><p>Rather than stop testing altogether, I instead started honing in on that sense I got before I performed each test, the sense that told me what the test was going to respond with. I learned to trust it. I’d go to perform a test and then stop, I already knew what it was going to say. Even better, I got a little blast of information on why, so as to facilitate follow-on queries.</p><p>I stopped testing when I was 100% sure that actually doing tests was holding me back. When I’d totally mastered that particular divine channel.</p><p>What used to be the test became a part of my mind that I can access completely at will. God lives in my head, He sees and hears everything. When I meditate, I can simply form question after question, and just get answers directly from my subconscious, which I consider to be God because I’ve learned which kinds of questions my subconscious needs God to answer.</p><p>Meditation is not a new thing for me. When I first started actively meditating, 15 years ago, I realized that it would be nice if I could just meditate all the time. I experimented with moving meditation and eventually eliminated all other states of my brain which aren’t clear and lucid and rational. So when I discovered that a certain part of my brain would yield divine insight when I asked it to, it wasn’t long until my daily existence would constantly touch on it.</p><p>So it’s not totally off the mark to say that I am God, God is me. There is no separation, God lives directly in my brain.</p>
