---
layout: post
title: Does the &quot;4-Hour Workweek&quot; by Tim Ferriss work in a third world country?
date: 2018-05-21
---

<p>I don’t live in a third world country so take my advice with a big grain of salt.</p><p>Theoretically, nothing about it should be impossible. But Tim’s book was aimed squarely at middle-class Americans. The techniques, rationale, and stories are geared to them. If you don’t have a basic understanding of business, you probably won’t get very far. If you don’t have easy Internet access, you probably won’t get very far.</p><p>There are very real resource and knowledge barriers that can be in between you and successful implementation of the strategies. There may also be cultural ones, good luck in most places negotiating turning an at-desk job into a remote one. It’s plenty hard even here.</p><p>Tim’s strategies require a fairly comfortable lifestyle before you can really get started. Starting an Internet-enabled business and automating it is not easy, you have to do a lot of studying and trying things out, and business often requires small amounts of capital that you’ll need to provide. If you have a comfortable lifestyle then $150 here and there to pay for ad spend or other business inputs won’t hurt much. If you don’t then you’ll have to choose between spending it on your business or on your own comfort.</p><p>The easiest road to a comfortable lifestyle in a third world country may well be to lean on the traditional family wealth that exists and start a family business or some such. The second easiest may be to emigrate to a more well off country.</p><p>So it really depends on what position you’re in in your country. Not even Tim Ferriss can solve the problem of global inequality.</p>
