---
layout: post
title: Why is Christianity the best religion?
date: 2018-04-18
---

<p>I was an atheist throughout much of my teen years. I then joined a Gardnerian Wiccan coven and practiced with them for close to a year. I read lots of books from various writers on spiritual topics. I then came up with my own spiritual concepts.</p><p>So why, if I’m certainly capable of creating and following my own brand of spirituality, do I find myself gravitating back to Christianity?</p><p>Because when you get right down to it, all spirituality is fundamentally the same sort of thing, the quest to transform self. And religion is just spirituality poured into a mold and left to dry.</p><p>I can make my own mold, but the fact of the matter is, I don’t have to. Other people have done it better already. Making a religion is a lot of work. You have to come up with scriptures, dogmas, paths, and truths. All of these things must be compelling enough to convince people, <i>without you even there to explain it</i>, to think and believe as you do.</p><p>And I’ve done life without belief and life with belief. Belief is fun. It drives you to do things. Think about it, when do you have the most fun? When what you’re doing is silly, but compelling enough to get you to spend unreasonable amounts of time and resources to do it <b>right</b>. Going on an expedition to find Big Foot. Building a man cave.</p><p>So that answers why I choose to believe. But why Christianity?</p><p>Christianity really is a great religion. Fundamentally, it’s all about forgiveness and being forgiving. Christianity doesn’t really make any demands on you. But if you decide to dive in, it’s deeper than anything else you’ll ever find. There’s an entire world there, right under your nose. You can get into the Bible, which is an actual thing that got written thousands of years ago. Despite being old, it’s absolutely fascinating, the story it tells.</p><p>Then there’s the history of the church that sprung up after the death of Jesus. The effort to make a religion a real, actual thing, rather than just something that lives in the minds of men, supremely fascinating. It fought on an equal playing field with <b>kings</b><b><i>.</i></b></p><p>Believing in it and studying it is so much more interesting and fulfilling than not believing in it and studying it. Your eyes and mind are alive. The Old Testament weaves history and storytelling in a tantalizing way.</p><p>All religions are and have accomplished amazing things. Judaism managed to survive events that would have destroyed other religions. It’s hard to match the insight Buddhist <i>dharma</i> has on the nature of mind and self.</p><p>But Christianity gets religion <b>right</b>. If you can get into it, you really should.</p>
