---
layout: post
title: How is God perfect if he knows good and evil too?
date: 2018-09-09
---

<p>Humans were made in God’s image. We were perfect. It wasn’t until we wanted the knowledge of good and evil that we became imperfect, capable of sin against each other and against God.</p><p>What is it about the knowledge of good and evil that, in man, makes us imperfect, yet in God, only makes Him more perfect? Well, it’s quite simple, God is limitless, while we are limited. Limitless of vision, of power, of clarity allows God to plan like no other being can. He can draw us out on elaborate journeys through our own follies, our own iniquities, to find lessons and growth.</p><p>God never forces us to be good, we must choose to be good themselves. He is not afraid, however, to force us to be evil. Many, many stories in the Bible have God, either directly or through agents like the Satan, either tempting or outright forcing man to be villainous.</p><p>The key to understanding this is that God sees our lives as a canvas to be painted on, He is happy if we learn but one important lesson in our entire lives. Our lives are inconsequential next to the sheer glory and majesty of the Lord. He has a plan for all, and this life is but one phase of it.</p><p>Humans would be truly lost without God. Atheism, complete lack of belief in God, is only a viable path in the world that has already been so suffused by God that lack of such guidance is no longer even the slightest bit risky. Before civilization, before modernity, which was built by Christian hands, trying to get by without religion, without a base world view to cooperate with your fellow humans on, meant being driven out to the very fringe of society.</p><p>No, atheists are content to keep Christian morality, safe in the cocoon of God’s embrace and command, while denying the source.</p><p>Here is a great articulation of God’s general approach for dealing with evil:</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/w1zkwkI9oAw?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="w1zkwkI9oAw" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/w1zkwkI9oAw/0.jpg');"></div>
