---
layout: post
title: How can you guide me to be enlightened without being abstract? How can you take me to be one with unity by advising me what to do to be that? Even though it is my path, can you help me to get some perspective?
date: 2018-12-03
---

<p>The way I would guide somebody who really wants to be enlightened is to tell them to keep two things in mind.</p><p>The first thing is that enlightenment is a real thing that you can attain. People that are enlightened actually use their brains differently than people who aren’t. But it takes <i>work</i> to get there. And it takes work to maintain the state once you get there. If you go get enlightened, then use the state to get rich, then you probably won’t be enlightened for very much longer, you’ll lose it. Because riches in general remove the impetus to do the next thing.</p><p>Second is that there is only one thing you need to do to draw yourself ever closer to the state. It’s called <i>surrender</i>. The enlightened mind is constantly surrendering. The unenlightened mind is constantly in a collection of fantasies of control, or fears that it’s not actually in control, worries that it will never find control, or an ugly resignation to the prospect that it will never be in control. The control is an illusion, as is the mind that fantasizes about it. Surrender brings you closer to this realization.</p><p>Surrender is the act of subordinating your mind, your identity, to things or ideas bigger than you. Buddhist dogma has it that the self is nonexistent. This is a bigger idea than you. Christians have you surrender to Jesus Christ. This is a bigger idea than you. It doesn’t matter what you surrender to, it only matters that your identity is continuously suborned. It is not an intellectual exercise, you cannot reason your way to enlightenment. Just accepting the idea that the self is nonexistent doesn’t actually stop the gears of self from continually generating the illusion of it. You have to actually stop those gears.</p><p>As you conduct your search and do your meditations and read about other people’s ideas, paths, and exhortations, remember these two things. Nothing else will make you enlightened other than surrender, so if someone is telling you that you have to do X, then that X is either a form of surrender or it is a form of keeping your ego in charge. And that it is a real thing and you can attain it.</p>
