---
layout: post
title: Would guys date a girl who has depression, anxiety, and has self-harm scars?
date: 2018-01-09
---

<p>I will interact with any girl I’m attracted to. Interacting means I’ll spend time with you when it’s convenient for me.</p><p>I will date any girl that I’m attracted to that I can see regularly. This is ultimately time-limited, but I haven’t run into the limit yet. Dating means spending time with you when it’s convenient for both of us, and being willing to organize and coordinate that time so it works for both of us.</p><p>I will conduct a relationship with any girl that I’m attracted to, can see regularly, and who has her shit together. Conducting a relationship is going out of my way to spend a lot of time with you.</p><p>I will fall in love with any girl that I’m attracted to, can see regularly, who has her shit together, and is capable of mutual devotion. Falling in love means pushing other girls away for you.</p><p>Where “having depression, anxiety, and self-harm scars” fails on this spectrum is the “has her shit together” part. This means that, assuming I’m attracted to you and I can see you regularly, I will happily and gladly schedule time to spend with you and do my best to keep my appointments and hope you do the same.</p><p>Perhaps some day you’ll get your shit together enough to conduct a relationship with me. I leave that possibility open, and will happily date you until it becomes inconvenient or have a bad enough fight.</p><p>My last few relationships were oriented around finding these boundary points. It’s far from done. I need to figure out what kinds of attraction are worth pursuing, and what deal-breakers are for me enough to end a relationship on. My last one ended with a fight, and I regret not trying to keep that one going.</p>
