---
layout: post
title: What happens if an enlightened woman gets raped by a psychopath male, will her kundalini regress, is the male able to steal her energy?
date: 2019-02-02
---

<p>Oh Quora. Stay classy.</p><p>The first thing I need to unpack is the connection between enlightenment and kundalini. Kundalini is one belief about enlightenment, it’s by no means representative of all spiritual practices that can bring about awakening / enlightenment.</p><p>The kundalini belief is both <i>specific</i> in that it refers to actual feelings and exercises, and <i>esoteric</i>, meaning the body of knowledge it represents is ultimately circular. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing when it comes to spiritual practice, but it’s one thing you want to keep in mind when comparing spiritual frames.</p><p>You absolutely can build a more universal framework for spirituality, the problem with doing this is that when you actually start to apply them, specific, esoteric beliefs tend to lose their power.</p><p>I did regular chakra meditation for months, only to have my mind blown when one of my friends told me you could restructure the energy flows in your body so there are only three chakras. Moreover, you could put the chakras anywhere you wanted. A few sessions later I’d verified this, and soon stopped doing chakra meditation.</p><p>I wanted repeatable, quantifiable spiritual results, and chakras, and by extension the whole concept of manipulating the energy flows in your body, well it just can’t be an ‘ultimate’ technique. I learned a lot to paying attention to energy flows in my body, I think it’s an actual sense that we have, like proprioception, and it’s good to build the ability to use it.</p><p>I’m not saying you can’t raise your kundalini energy and produce something a state resembling what they call a kundalini awakening, I’m just saying that’s not the end-all-be-all of spiritual growth. And it probably doesn’t work precisely in the manner described.</p><p>The spiritual world you’re learning how to explore existed before you thought to explore it, you just typically manipulate it subconsciously. The study makes it conscious, but you can’t <b>keep</b> it conscious. Not if you want to keep growing. You don’t just keep adding spiritual powers like a comic book superhero!</p><p>No, all this stuff just adds to the amount of things you can be conscious of at any given time. Once you stop doing regular chakra meditations and start some other kind of meditation designed to help you acquire a new sense, your body will naturally regulate its energy just like it did before you started. You’re just a little bit more conscious of how and why.</p><p>So now let’s deal with rape. Rape absolutely is a psychic assault on a person, but it’s important to note that it’s also a <i>physical</i> one, it threatens your personal sense of safety. Spirituality, particularly esoteric spirituality like kundalini, can only really flower and be useful in an environment of safety. When you are not safe, you should fall back on non-esoteric methods like calling on Jesus or your chosen deity for help.</p><p>Why is this? Well, let’s examine what traumatic brain injury is. Your mind has a bunch of inner structures that it uses to make sense of the world and your place in it. These structures are all over the brain, in the top, cognitive parts, and the lower brainstem. Your cognitive mind doesn’t really have to acknowledge the existence of the lower levels, but those lower levels can override the cognitive part when it feels the need.</p><p>Being subjected to violence will ‘break’ those structures. If you’ve ever experienced heartbreak you’ve probably seen how the feelings can start to feel physical. Psychic symptoms find physical expression. Your entire nervous system just goes haywire, the whole system is in shock. And when it finally reorganizes, the ‘structures’ just don’t do the same thing they did before.</p><p>It changes your personality. The ‘structures’ you used to consider yourself and the world, they just aren’t the same, so you aren’t the same.</p><p>Spirituality can be looked at, from a neuroscience perspective, as the process of changing how you see the world and yourself from the top, the cognitive, down. Meditation, chakras, the energy flows of the body, are ways to pump more information from the rest of the body into the cognitive part of the brain so it can make sense of and manipulate them.</p><p>A traumatic event can totally destroy spiritual progress. That said, you’re not your body or mind, you are pure essence, and so your experiences, both before and after the traumatic event, are written onto your soul and your soul will find a way to project its uniqueness into your new, now-traumatized mind. Life still has meaning even after grievous injury, but you are going to have to live with that injury at least until the rest of your body goes.</p>
