---
layout: post
title: When spiritual gurus say turn inward, what do they mean? Is realizing your true self worth it? Can enlightenment break me free? Is it the real freedom?
date: 2019-01-07
---

<p>The journey inward starts with a question, one such as you’ve asked here. Only, rather than ask someone else as you have, you instead ask it of yourself. How can you answer your own question? What a curious concept, answering your own question! Isn’t the whole reason you ask a question because you don’t know the answer?</p><p>Well, you sit and think about possible answers to it. Weigh how they feel against each other. A question you might ask yourself is, “why do I keep messing up all the relationships I get in?” Rather than talking it over with friends, of course there’s nothing wrong with that, you just think carefully about your own behavior and the causes behind it.</p><p>This is called <i>introspection</i>, and it’s the cornerstone to agency. Our experiences and reactions happen in real time, you just don’t get the ability to choose how you respond to something before the response already happens. In order to change how you respond to things, you need to consider them when there’s nothing to demand a response.</p><p>While you’re having relationships and messing them up, you can’t really decide not to. But if you’ve thought about a particular situation beforehand, then when it comes up again, you can recognize it and once recognized, you can do it differently.</p><p>Spirituality goes beyond this. When you have questions about things that you cannot answer, then you need to access a mental state that is beyond the self. Questions like, “why does anything exist” or “what’s the meaning of life” are not questions that simple introspection can answer, because they’re not just deep questions, they’re also incredibly vast.</p><p>We call the process of exploring those questions meditation. It differs from introspection in that the normal mundane functioning of mind must be halted, so that one can explore the ineffable. While you are exploring the ineffable, experience shifts, you are not existing normally. What’s doing the exploration is a different, higher, truer form of self.</p><p>This true self is not limited, it’s agency is limitless. It can see anything, do anything, it is our direct connection with the divine. It projects itself into your body and mind so that it can have agency in this world. But you are limited in what you can accomplish, forgetful that you have this limitlessness on call.</p><p>Turning inward allows you to reconnect.</p><p>Merely turning inward will not make you enlightened, but it will <i>awaken</i> you to a new way to exist, a new reality. Once awoken, mundane and spiritual life start to mix together and start anew a journey towards more and more wakefulness, growth, and agency.</p><p>As you orient yourself in this new reality, you start to see how things like the Law of Attraction are not just hokey cons, they’re real and 100x more amazing than the books and videos could possibly depict. As you explore them and learn how they work, eventually they lose their magic the same way everything else does, realization slowly dawns that spiritual reality is simply reality.</p><p>Awakening mellows out and lightens. You are made lighter by the lifting of the need to understand. Spiritual reality is simply too complicated to fully understand anyway. Rather than understand it, the thing to do is embody it.</p><p>The mundane self that ruled you in the beginning, that you explored through introspection, then learned to quiet down when you begin meditating, cedes ever more of itself to the part exploring the ineffable. The mundane self is enlightened. It starts with a question, and ends with surrender.</p>
