---
layout: post
title: How can you tell if your blood line is tied to black magic?
date: 2019-03-28
---

<p>What a great question! Thanks for the A2A!</p><p>I used to think that both black magic, and that what we, nowadays, call karma can pass down through a family’s descendants, was just total garbage. In my mind, all spiritual techniques could only <i>really</i> affect the self, your poor choices are going to largely focus their effects on you. And I couldn’t help but read all the stories to the contrary as the fanciful tales of those who believe themselves as way more powerful and interesting than they are.</p><p>Until I started reading the Bible. It wasn’t until I read several Bible stories, that I got the feeling that spirituality doesn’t have to just affect the self. If you choose to use spirituality to affect things on a grander scale, then the recoil effects can reverberate many generations down the line.</p><p>Another thing that affected my epiphany was the realization of just how <b>deep</b> reality really is. One of the most formative ‘spiritual’ realizations I had was that it’s possible for people to be <i>shooting at each other with guns</i> and innocent bystanders just feet away might <i>never even notice</i>. The sheer number of people whose accounts of crazy weird events like disasters and whatnot saying their entire experience of the encounter is that they didn’t even realize something was wrong until it was all over and someone had to tell them was telling.</p><p>There’s so much that we experience that not even a single other person can even have an inkling of. You have no idea about 99.999% of what your neighbors are doing, what the subjective experience of their lives are like.</p><p>If God chooses to make a splash in your life, it’s not just possible, but very much <b>probable</b> that it’s not going to leave enough evidence for anyone <i>standing right next to you</i> to even see that there’s something weird going on.</p><p>The Bible speaks of families that God favors. The patriarch enjoyed a special relationship with God, and God chose to reward that patriarch with blessings on the family and their descendants. And people who have particularly sinned against God can have their families ‘cursed’. The sheer complexity of reality and the fact that anybody can attribute any reason to anything happening means that pretty much anything is possible when it comes to God deciding on reward / punishment for people that didn’t directly <i>deserve</i> said reward / punishment.</p><p>Do you feel blessed? Look to your parents. Did they seem blessed? Did things they do that in other people would have resulted in a downfall, actually result in success? It’s probably not a coincidence. A fairly recent ancestor probably enjoyed an extremely close connection with God.</p><p>Do you feel cursed? Nothing you do actually seems to help you or anyone around you out? It’s possible that you’re the recipient of a subtle kind of punishment for something you didn’t do and don’t deserve. I’m compelled to say at this juncture that if this feels like you, you can repair yours and your immediate family’s relationship with God by getting very close to Him. Ask for help, and look hard for a divine response. Break the cycle of your family dysfunction by getting guidance not from them, but from God.</p><p>Now on to the juicy topic of black magic. Black magic is when you decide to disregard other people’s sense of self and well-being and utilize divine correspondences to enrich yourself at their expense. From personal experience I have determined that those doing these kinds of acts make a weird sort of bargain with the Lord. They use the Lord, and the Lord uses them. Because the Lord is perfectly aware of consequences and you aren’t, and you set out with the direct intention of harming someone so that you could get ahead, the Lord is going to grant you success, and give you the illusion of having harmed.</p><p>But it’s a nasty sort of success. A great example is the current US President. He’s earned success, he has a kind of dark magic of media manipulation, that was taught to him by another dark wizard of these arts. He succeeded wildly with them, gaining accolade after accolade, none of the sordid nature of his tactics affecting him in any way he would perceive, instead tarnishing his soul.</p><p>If you look at the lives of his offspring, you see the same sort of moral apathy. I remember after the inauguration all the liberals said, “lay off of poor Barron Trump, he hasn’t had any chance to make his own moral choices yet.” But honestly with parents and grandparents like his, exactly what sort of high hopes do you have?</p><p>I didn’t really intend to get political here. But the subject matter sort of requires this kind of salaciousness. All I really mean to say is that your parents affect you in more ways than you know. If you know what to look for, you can piece together the moral choices of your parents and work out how they affected your own sense of self. And you can work out your parent’s parents moral lives and see how they affected your parent’s. This stuff reverberates.</p><p>I once met a Dark Night Yogi whose inner life I could only have described as “tormented.” He was able to coast on family wealth and never had to really work a day in his life. Never even seemed to know what that meant. There were things in his life that he had to do but didn’t want to do, but it only really affected his ego, and not his actual choices. He dived into spirituality but his spiritual life had this constant gripping fear of his own dark side. As if he was worried he’d turn into Darth Vader one day.</p><p>That to me looks like a family history of black magic. Wealth and privilege without fully clear morals. He seemed to have a somewhat clear sense of morality so perhaps he was where his family’s historical arc changed. But the gripping fear that he was doing it wrong had to come from somewhere. It certainly didn’t really seem like a foundational aspect of his <i>individual</i> character so I suspect it was taught to him by his familial upbringing.</p>
