---
layout: post
title: How do I understand spiritual things?
date: 2019-01-24
---

<p>Hi Emma, this is a great question.</p><p>Spirituality is a very, very tough thing to think about. Humans have been spiritual ever since they started talking, and all they could really do is come up with tribal worship cults. Which served their purposes just fine, but would never work for our sophisticated civilization.</p><p>To cut through the muck, academic theological philosophers have come up with a variety of concepts that attempt to universalize religious concepts. The broadest ones have among them <i>soteriology, eschatology, theodicy, ethics</i>, they discuss salvation, destiny, evil, and morality respectively. So you can read up on these concepts to get a broad background into the sorts of things religions deal with.</p><p>Dovetailing into this is spirituality. While religion concerns society, spirituality concerns the individual. I have found that it is best to start with a religion you find beautiful, try to understand it, and jump off from it to find your own spirituality. When I was first learning how to be spiritual, I found a metaphysical study group that became my de facto friend group.</p><p>Through this group I found a Wiccan coven to join. Wicca is an alternative <i>syncretic </i>religion, meaning it takes concepts from various other religions that were practiced over periods ranging from ancient Egypt all the way to the Middle Ages, a vast amount of time. I learned to meditate and read many many books from traditions both East and West.</p><p>I cannot overstate the importance of getting an ‘education’ in spiritual concepts. There’s an astounding number of resources out there. I personally liked spiritual bookstores, you can just wander around and pick up things that catch your eye, read for awhile and decide what you like and what resonates with you.</p><p>Don’t get too discouraged at the sheer mass of different options. It all tends to point towards a similar truth, just in different ways.</p>
