---
layout: post
title: Was spirituality also created by man?
date: 2019-04-01
---

<p>Obviously. Are you trying to argue that spirituality exists outside of humanity? Maybe your faithful pet Fluffy the furry, felicitious feline has a god of her own and worships said deity in her free time.</p><p>Can you think of a single time this has ever been suggested even in jest? No, cats in particular are largely considered sociopathic, the would-be rulers of the space that humans inhabit if only they could figure out how to fill their own litter boxes and food bowls.</p><p>No, cats can be <i>worshipped</i> as gods, as the Egyptians were prone to do, but cannot be imagined as beings that worship anything other than themselves.</p><p>This should not be considered a coincidence. Everything about human spiritual dynamics can be explained by their unique neurobiology. We can imagine Neanderthals to have gods but not other animals, save dogs, whose gods seem to be us, with intriguing implications.</p><p>Humans have an altruistic instinct that is entirely necessary for their spirituality to take root. Those known as psychopathic do not have an altruistic part of their brain that works and so they cannot have spiritual thoughts. Narcissists can only think to turn spirituality to their own ends. A fully-functioning limbic system is necessary for a spiritual life.</p><p>It’s entirely reasonable to consider spirituality to be the creation of, and the sole dominion of man. The exceptions only prove the rule.</p><p>In my experience, one cannot create a <b>useful</b> religion / spiritual regime without the necessary ingredient of the technique of spiritual <i>surrender</i>. This is a special sort of interplay between the limbic and cognitive systems. Christians get surrender perfectly, this is one of the reasons why I think Christianity is the best religion. A close second is Buddhism, which gets 70% of the way there but misses the personal connection with a deity that Christianity makes essential use of.</p><p>Not that I think all religion’s encouragement of a personal connection with their deity that one surrenders to is the same as Christianity’s. Rather, it’s the specifics of said connection that’s important.</p>
