---
layout: post
title: I just met a girl who I instantly like. How should I proceed? Slowly but surely? I am afraid to go further. How do I know if she have a boyfriend already? What should I do?
date: 2019-01-22
---

<p>Easy there buddy, calm down. Take some deep breaths.</p><p>The first thing you want to do is to just talk to her about nice, non-threatening things. Like the weather. Small talk. It opens the space for deeper interaction. Usually a lady will at this point just state, sometimes rather pointedly, that they have a boyfriend. This is a cue that she’s at least not immediately interested in a romantic connection.</p><p>But if she doesn’t, and the conversation manages to deepen from just stupid things that aren’t all that interesting to things you are interested in, like music tastes or astrology or whatever, then at some point you can pop the “do you have a boyfriend” question. You need to listen carefully how she responds here, because as much is conveyed by tone and the specific words as by the mere ‘yes’ or ‘no’. You can ask further questions if she seems willing to open up more about her relationship status, or let it drop and keep talking about what you were talking about before.</p><p>If she still seems interested in interacting with you, hasn’t given you a ‘yes’ answer on the boyfriend question, then you’re going to want to start connecting more authentically and emotionally. Share some feelings you had about something, preferably something related to the topic at hand. She can share feelings back, and all of a sudden there’s a slight bit of intimate space.</p><p>At some point it will be time to take your leave. This is when you ask about future connection. Many times the lady in question will instantly sense what you’re after and just hand out her number if she likes you. If not you can ask.</p><p>Call her up later and ask for a date. Keep it light and friendly. First ask if she’s interested in going out and spending time with you. If she’s interested, talk a little bit about possible places to meet up. Once you find a place you both like, find a time when you can meet there. The order here is specifically designed to avoid miscommunications and to put first things first. Once you have those three nailed down, ask, “okay then, do we have a date?” She’ll either say yes or no. If she says no then you need to back off. Asking for a date is romantic, so back it off to just being friendly.</p><p>Assuming she says yes, dress appropriately for the venue. Whether you carry yourself well is going to depend on your bearing, manners, and ability to hold a conversation. It depends far less on how much money you spend, how good or stylish you look, or whether you own a motorcycle.</p><p>It’s a good thing to do chivalrous things like opening the door for her and pulling her chair out. It’s a good thing to listen to her and let her express herself before jumping in to give your perspective. It’s a good thing to offer honest opinions.</p><p>In the course of the date you will either feel a ‘spark’ or you won’t. A spark is a little emotional charge that you <b>both</b> get from interacting with each other. If she’s listening closely to you, telling you personal details about her life, then these are indicators of a return interest. Hopefully they deepen over the course of the date and you’ll not just be in a romantic space but an intimate one as well. Don’t push it too far on the first date, let the energy establish itself.</p><p>If it doesn’t work out, you can try to get feedback by asking honestly what she didn’t like about you. But don’t push your luck. Lots of beautiful ladies out there that you can ask out.</p>
