---
layout: post
title: What is a good career for someone who has achieved spiritual enlightenment?
date: 2019-05-27
---

<p>I personally chose software development. It took close to ten years for me to settle on that.</p><p>My first choice was to join the military. The military didn’t for me for a variety of reasons, which didn’t all make a lot of sense to me at the time, but at the end of the day I just didn’t fit with military culture.</p><p>After leaving the military I got into construction. I liked the flexibility, working with my hands, and building things. But again, I just didn’t fit in with the people there and it became easier over time to just switch careers rather than try to make it work.</p><p>I took acting classes and considered a career in entertainment. The reason I couldn’t make entertainment work for me wasn’t that I didn’t gel with the people there, for once. No, I love entertainment industry, it’s people and the culture.</p><p>What made entertainment not work for me was that it was fundamentally incompatible with the way my own mind worked. I need intellectual stimulation at an extremely rapid clip, and what was great and intense and fun about acting, there just wasn’t any sort of option to do it all the time, to optimize just for being up on stage.</p><p>But software does offer that to me. And it pays way better. And I’m super talented with it. I chose to ignore software for many many years to chase other ways of making a living, coming back to software after all that makes me feel like I’m a kid again, just learning and making things happen because it’s fun and cool.</p><p>Enlightenment made it easier for me to tolerate wrong paths for longer. You don’t pick your career to fit the fact that you’ve learned how to surrender. You pick it for the same reasons everyone else does, assuming you even have the option. Many enlightened people can’t muster up any sort of agency over their material existence. These people are better served downsizing and working a low-stress, low-demand job and achieving and staying debt-free. This lifestyle offers the best conditions for spiritual exploration.</p>
