---
layout: post
title: Is Eckhart Tolle and basically all spiritual teachers basically worthless? He said something to the effect of trying to being ok with the present moment and not worry about money. I got the message as if life will help me somehow but it didn&#39;t.
date: 2019-04-04
---

<p>I would like to share an experience I have had. After my spiritual awakening, which I have detailed <a href="https://spiritual-musings.quora.com/How-I-got-into-spirituality">here</a>, I went through a period of perhaps two months where all I really wanted to do was to explore all the new frames and abilities that the awakening gave me access to.</p><p>I didn’t want to burden myself with the task of finding a job and working and all that stuff. So, well, I didn’t. I asked my Higher Self if it was going to be a problem. “No,” it answered, but of course I wasn’t satisfied. So I thought about it and we came up with the idea of a deal / bet. I was going to keep doing what I’m doing until the money runs out and by then my Higher Self promised a resolution to the issue of maintaining a place in the world.</p><p>One of the things I was doing then was taking acting classes. I thought, “wouldn’t it be great if I could get an acting gig or something?” Since it was the only thing I was doing at all that could have gone anywhere I simply assumed that that was how I would get what I was promised.</p><p>By the time acting classes wound down, we did our final scenes in front of an agent. We were told that some students do indeed get signed right out of acting class. At the end of four months of acting classes, I had, underneath, realized that acting really wasn’t for me. If I didn’t get signed, I wasn’t going to do all the legwork needed to become an actor.</p><p>I did not get signed. And I ran out of money. I put into play my plan B, which was to move a state over and go live with my father. I felt rather dejected that my Higher Self wouldn’t help me. And I resolved to put all that nonsense spiritual stuff on the back burner.</p><p>Oh how wrong I was. Not only was I unable to put my ‘nonsense spiritual stuff’ on the back burner, I was also able to work out a method for <i>integrating</i> my spiritual life with a worldly life, and started a career in software development. I now make way more money than I ever did before I did my ‘pointless’ gamble with God.</p><p>The episode ended a decade-long search for the answer to the question, “what in the heck am I doing with my life?” The willingness to put it all aside and just keep doing what I was doing despite knowing it could all fall apart was what’s called a “leap of faith.”</p><p>All in all, what I’ve learned since then is that the universe / God is willing to shield you from the bad consequences that can arise from seeking honestly and relentlessly for something to love and cherish and protect and pursue. Eckhart Tolle learned that and you can too. And that a plan b isn’t a bad thing to have.</p>
