---
layout: post
title: How does telekinesis work? Can our brainwaves move object?
date: 2019-03-21
---

<p>In my brief exposure to telekinesis, I have been able to ascertain that the way in which it works is that a) you ask God for something to happen, and then b) God makes it happen for you. This isn’t just the way that TK works, it’s the way all spiritual ‘abilities’ work.</p><p>Everything in between steps a) and b) is up to God to determine. When I was directly exploring the space of affecting the physical world with spiritual techniques, and I came around to TK, my experiment involved a laptop with stuck keys. I had been communicating with my ‘higher self’ for some time, and our communications bandwidth was such that I could directly receive instructions.</p><p>I was annoyed at the keys that just kept sticking and once my annoyance was great enough, I received instructions to hover a hand over the keys and ‘push energy’ into the keys. So I spent a few seconds pushing energy until I was instructed to stop. I tapped on the keys and sure enough, they had loosened and felt like normal keys again!</p><p>Fascinated, I continued to use the laptop and after about thirty seconds, the keys started sticking again. So I performed the technique again. This time they stayed unstuck for like ten seconds. I didn’t try a third time, I could tell that this part of the lesson had concluded.</p><p>My higher self then posed a question to me. “Is this something you want to work on?” My mind was filled with visions of starting an “apprenticeship program” of sorts where I slowly work out a method of doing telekinesis at will.</p><p>Part of this method, I was made painfully clear of, was that I wouldn’t have total command over it. The method learned would effectively just a faster way of the two steps outlined above. If God says no, then no movement takes place. And if God wanted someone to collect James Randi’s million-dollar prize, He probably wasn’t just waiting around for me.</p><p>Another part of it was that it would take many many hours over weeks, perhaps months, of intense concentration. I would literally be attuning my mind to the dimension where will affects physics. The physical world is just really really dense. Not in terms of mass, but in terms of how much information you need in order to specify what something is and where it should move. Didn’t really appeal to me.</p><p>And so I wondered why in the world I would bother. Why break the laws of physics when you can work with them and be ten times more powerful? You know how I could have fixed the stickiness for good? Pulling the keys off and wiping them down with rubbing alcohol. I’m going to learn a difficult and painstaking technique just to do things I could do faster and easier in just about any other way?</p><p>If I want to be a wizard, I want my wizardry to really impress people. I want to be a badass software developer, and command vast powers across the globe using a magical device that has a glowing crystal screen and an esoteric input interface.</p><p>I could have learned TK, but decided to just figure out how to code instead. The pay’s better.</p>
