---
layout: post
title: Is narcissism possible if the individual has attained enlightenment?
date: 2019-05-13
---

<p>Consciousness is a weird thing. There are layers. There’s the low mind, self, the high mind, and surrender is the process of stripping identification away from the low mind and placing it more and more with the higher. At high levels of surrender, the identification as high mind also starts to subside, leaving identification with pure awareness, what’s called the watcher.</p><p>Enlightenment is what happens when identification is stripped even from the watcher.</p><p>Surrender isn’t the only component of human spiritual advancement. There is also the level of perceptive responsiveness. This regulates how ‘fast’ your cognitive loop operates. A person with an extremely high level of perceptive responsiveness’s mind operates with a ferocious tenacity, making observations and deriving insights from those observations with lightning speed.</p><p>In the brain, surrender is when the cognitive mind interplays with the limbic system, producing a cathartic release of ‘structure’. This, by reducing barriers in the mind keeping ‘stuff’ from interacting with each other, creates a new ‘normal’ for the cognitive mind to come to grips with. With both a high levels of surrender, and high level of perceptive responsiveness, a loop is created by which surrender, followed by cognitive closure over the new state created by surrender, driving yet more surrender, is created.</p><p>It is this loop that produces the high states, also commonly called <i>satori</i> states.</p><p>With narcissism and other personality disorders, limbic functioning is diminished. The normal tendency is to shut off emotional experiencing, existence is primarily cognitive. It would be easy to conclude that because the full brain isn’t operating in a person with PD, that surrender is inaccessible, thus enlightenment can’t be reached.</p><p>But what generally happens in a limbically-diminished person is the person re-creates the limbic system cognitively. In fact, in young people, emotional development doesn’t finish until late twenties-mid thirties. So cognitive empathy is relied upon anyway until the empathic centers finally do come online.</p><p>Yet young people are commonly considered enlightened, so what gives?</p><p>The answer is that what the brain is doing, and what the being is doing is different. The self is primarily a pattern-recognition machine. The brain perceives something that makes it happy, the pattern is recognized, and the reward centers are activated. Perception of bad things depress the peripheral nervous system, making you feel bad. What is perceived and what the response is is the domain of self. In this way the self doesn’t really exist as more than just patterns.</p><p>The being, on the other hand, is primarily interested in the construction of <i>meaning</i>. The self observes patterns, while the being creates them. What the being does feeds back into self. Identification is where the being gets meaning from. If the being identifies with self, then bad things happening make the being <i>suffer</i>. Without identification, peripheral nervous system depression does not make the being suffer, it doesn’t feed back into the creation of meaning. What the self, the brain, does, the patterns it recognizes, do not feed back into themselves.</p><p>So as you can see it’s not really necessary for the whole brain to come online before cathartic surrender is possible. A surrender just means that all of the brain bursts open and a new state is accessed. And so it’s possible for cathartic surrender to happen all the time even in a limbically-deficient person.</p><p>What enlightenment won’t do is remove the disorder at the heart of personality. The self is still there and it still operates along the lines of rules that others can see. It’s just that this experiencing isn’t feeding strongly back into the being, the personality disorder doesn’t <i>define</i> a person.</p><p>I will say that as a person gets older, the disorder in the personality will very likely eventually become targeted for insight. I think only people with very high levels of perceptive responsiveness will get to the point of self-awareness about the disordered nature of their lower self.</p><p>We’re all playing the game as best we can with the cards we’ve been dealt in life. Yes, people have different brains that work differently. But spirituality is accessible by all.</p>
