---
layout: post
title: What are the biggest obstacles which prevents one human being from fully and mutually understanding another human being (e.g. your spouse) in relationships today?
date: 2019-01-27
---

<p>It’s hard to give one answer to this but if I had to put a finger on it I would say emotional immaturity.</p><p>Emotional immaturity turns miscommunications into arguments. It makes people take combative stances where gentle ones would solve the problem better.</p><p>When you look at a person’s actions and try to understand them, you are necessarily going to use your own mind as a model, because that’s the mind you’re most familiar with. But other people’s minds are not yours. So you are going to make mistakes.</p><p>Immaturity is shown in how you deal with those mistakes. If you blame the other person for not being like you, so that you could better understand what they did and why, then you are being immature.</p><p>Mature approaches to conflicts de-escalate them. You respond to someone else’s anger with compassion and caring rather than fighting. In so doing the other person feels safe. What they feel safe with is a product of maturity. If they feel safe in walking all over your feelings all the time knowing you won’t raise so much as a voice, that’s immaturity. If they respond by recognizing that getting angry was not a good response to the situation and thank you for being safe and non-confrontational anyway, that’s maturity.</p><p>People are not born mature, it takes awhile for people’s limbic systems to develop. The capacity for self-reflection is key to its development. The capacity to apologize is key to keeping a relationship going until maturity can be developed.</p>
