---
layout: post
title: How do you know if they&#39;re actually ignoring you or if they&#39;re just busy with other things? Is there an extent to how far they can be &quot;busy&quot; until it just becomes ignoring?
date: 2019-05-19
---

<p>In the vast majority of cases in which people wonder about this, the state of mind of the other concerned person is bouncing between the fact that they really are busy, and the feeling that the other person is bothering them. The more you ping and ask, the more you get put into the bothering category. But if you just let it go, you risk letting the connection die completely.</p><p>It took me a long time to crack this nut. The real answer to this revolves around being <i>interesting and refreshing</i>. Don’t just ping, “how you doing, do you want to hang out later?” Send something interesting instead, a joke you just thought of, a funny meme you saw on Facebook. There’s an endless variety of things you can use to make your request for connection not get put in the annoying bucket.</p><p>They might respond to it or they might not. If they don’t, make another interesting ping a day or so later. If they do, interact briefly about it <i>before</i> you stick your big needy nose in their face and ask for more of their time.</p><p>If they don’t reply to you even when you’re <b>not</b> being needy, then that’s how you know they really don’t want to interact with you. Most people are happy to spend time with an interesting and non-needy person. It’s when you step over the boundary of being demanding when people start to feel suffocated by you.</p><p>Be interesting by paying close attention to the <i>intentions</i> behind what you’re saying or sending. You don’t send a meme just because you want to ask them out, you send it because you thought it was funny and wanted to share it. Nothing needy about that. Let that interaction finish and then talk about time you’d like to spend with them. Having everything be about selfishly taking up their time is boring and needy and what everyone else does.</p><p>On asking for someone’s time, make sure you do that in a non-needy way too. If you’re the one asking, make sure you sell it to them. Someone else is going to be way more enthusiastic about spending time with you if you’re not the <b>only</b> thing they’ll be able to engage with.</p><p>This is why the movie date is a thing. It’s not the best when it comes to building a mental connection, but it’s great at bringing two people into close proximity in a way that allows both parties to not focus <b>all</b> their attention on each other. If a lot of your dinner or coffee dates are getting awkward, you might try switching it up with a movie date instead.</p>
