---
layout: post
title: How can Epistemology (philosophy of Knowledge) benefit people in their daily lives?
date: 2019-05-02
---

<p>Epistemology is useful to the layman if you can not get <b>too</b> deep in the weeds with it. The definition epistemology gives of knowledge is fascinating and worth musing over. The way the field focuses on <i>belief</i> is a critical reminder of the fact that very very little of the thoughts we have in life are any more than unjustified belief. Not all of it is even true.</p><p>Epistemology helps you first to see that there is a great fog in our minds, then to cut through that fog to find solid ground. Things you believe and that are even <i>true</i> should not be considered to be <i>knowledge,</i> without an attending <i>justification</i>.</p><p>Understanding this allows you to make better arguments, both to yourself and to others. It helps you to reason about things that you don’t have full understanding of. Paying close attention to systems of justification and exactly what fits what system reveals just how little of what humans discuss is actually knowledgable, especially in realms such as politics and religion.</p><p>Epistemology forces you to reckon with different <i>standards</i> of justification. Truth may be binary, but justification <i>isn’t</i>. Propositions may be more or less justified. Things are not more or less true, but they can be more or less <i>wrong</i>.</p><p>The usual example is that of the Earth’s shape. The Earth isn’t flat, nor is it precisely spherical. But the statement that it’s spherical is less wrong than the statement that it’s flat. Epistemological justification provides the answer for why this is the case.</p><p>A careful, considered study of epistemology also leaves room for spiritual and religious belief. Philosophical positions aimed at removing the basis for justification of non-material realities all tend to fall apart when you start applying them universally. Positivism was once cutting edge, now it’s fighting a rear-guard action for academic relevance.</p>
