---
layout: post
title: What advice do you have for a successful 30-year-old who is bored with sex, travel and buying useless crap? What&#39;s next in life?
date: 2019-01-22
---

<p>You need to find some kind of meaning in your life. Meaning is best found when you are outside your comfort zone. Since your comfort zone is having sex, traveling, and shopping, try spending some time on the opposite side of that.</p><p>Note that I’m not saying there’s nothing wrong with any of those things. They provide meaning for lots of people. It’s just you’re not seeing the broader picture because you can’t fit these activities into a broader framework for who you are and how you live your life.</p><p>The Buddha left his comfortable lifestyle to mingle with the peasantry. It is said he had never seen an old person until he first left his palace. In leaving his comfort zone he got to see the other side of the coin of abundance.</p><p>After witnessing human suffering he decided that palace life wasn’t for him, moving from a wealthy existence to a spiritual one, training under yogis and begging for alms in the streets. King Bimbisara saw Gautama’s actions and was moved enough to offer pre-enlightened Buddha his own throne, which was turned down.</p><p>I am not saying you should give up your lifestyle. Just to go see the other side of it for awhile. The Buddha did not immediately renounce the world after he saw his first old dude, but it prompted him to keep exploring and discovering. The comfort zone you exist in is static and unchanging, this is why you can’t find a reason to keep doing it. The only way you can move forward is to give that zone a shock.</p>
