---
layout: post
title: Do atheists drink hot cocoa? You take one sip and the flavor explodes in the mouth. Isn&#39;t it the best gift our God created? Isn&#39;t it the very evidence that atheists requested?
date: 2019-01-10
---

<p>When I was a kid I developed a certain taste in music. As I grew older, I developed that taste in music and now when I listen to a track I particularly like, it’s like I’m instantly transported into heaven.</p><p>For a while in my teens after I’m done listening to music, as the orgasmic high of the experience settles down, I wonder, why isn’t the world singing the praises of music?</p><p>As I developed my spirituality, I learned just how flippin’ <b>amazing</b> divinity is, I wondered, why doesn’t everyone feel this? And I started looking around and talking to people to ascertain just how much of the amazing nature of just existing they can actually feel.</p><p>And well, what I found out is that you have to actually develop your capacity to enjoy things. And if you want to be able to connect that enjoyment to the divine, then you need to do that work too.</p><p>But moreso than just doing the work, you have to first believe it’s possible. The way we commonly think about it, we see ourselves as making the <i>choice</i> to believe or not. But really when you look deeply at it, no choice really occurs. People either have experiences that lead to acceptance and willingness to explore the divine, or they don’t.</p><p>Materialism is the <b>default</b> stance. People have to be encouraged to see their experiences as part of a divine reality. And as America sheds its religiosity, this is just going to happen less and less.</p><p>Instead it’s <i>spirituality</i> that’s going to carry on man’s relationship with God. People aren’t interested in doing lots of work to understand things. They just want to experience all divinity has to offer.</p>
