---
layout: post
title: Why does it harm me to feel bad when a bad thing happens?
date: 2019-03-28
---

<p>The harm comes from identification, the feeling that you are the thing that was harmed. If you do not identify as the thing that was harmed, then you were not harmed. If I throw an ax at a nearby tree, the tree is harmed, but you are not, unless for some reason that you identified as the tree, perhaps for instance it’s your tree, and you loved that tree. Then you’d very much feel hurt by me attacking your tree.</p><p>When I was a kid, I used to push straight pins through the dead skin of my fingers. Occasionally I would push too hard and I’d get a jolt of pain. What is hurting? Are the feelings of pain of any consequence at all?</p><p>They are, they do, if <i>you</i> feel they are. What is you? Are you your body? If you look at a part of your body that hurts, examine the pain, feel what the pain feels like, then a layer of <i>observance</i> is placed in between the feelings of pain and what is experiencing the pain. The observance turns the subjective experience of the pain into the subjective observation of the experience of pain.</p><p>You can observe someone else feeling pain. Do you suffer when you watch someone else feel pain? Maybe. There’s the empathic response, where you take on someone else’s pain. But it’s not the same as you suffering the pain. It’s pain that’s not just felt, but also observed. The observation blankets the immediate experience.</p><p>This process of continuing to observe, not just events that are suffered, but all things that are subjectively experienced and thus identified with, a process can be identified that creates disindentification everywhere, not just with pain. We call that process <i>surrender</i>.</p>
