---
layout: post
title: How do you attain magical powers?
date: 2019-01-11
---

<p>The mystical is best understood as a more powerful form of introspection. Any expanded sense of perception that comes along with this will be found to be most useful in the careful examination of self, with any attempt to directly control it just failing to produce expected results, or to be operable practically.</p><p>This is because our existence is predicated on physical reality and so the most effective ways of changing that reality are going to be physical, while perception of the mystical is always going to be fuzzy and indistinct because we’re just not ‘tuned’ to see it, we’re tuned to see physical things.</p><p>Spiritual reality is best looked at as another dimension of reality. When you expand your perception, you gain additional modes of seeing and doing through new ‘channels’.</p><p>That all said, mystical exploration is best accomplished through a mix of inward techniques such as visualization meditation and outward techniques like leaps of faith. You start small and build from there.</p><p>The mystical is seductive and will lead you into a wild goose chase. If you don’t participate in the wild goose chase, which will be as compelling as it is magical as it is silly, then all the energy goes flat and the wondrous intensity of the experience flees from the threat of rational attack.</p><p>It builds to a crescendo, it feels like you’re right at the tip of finally earning your ‘powers’, You get a little taste, then all of a sudden it all stops working. You tumble down the precipice, grasping at any new spiritual technique you can learn to keep the magic going a little while longer.</p><p>But the journey won’t be denied, and you’re plunged into a hell called the Dark Night. Not only are your spiritual techniques not working, your ego is reeling from the ultimate denial. You wallow here for as long as you need to, then the state eventually lifts of its own accord. You may at this point decide to abandon spirituality.</p><p>But spirituality isn’t done with you yet. The seduction has to run its course and finish the transformation of you from one who made demands of spirituality into one who lives in harmony with it. The ‘techniques’ you learned before the Dark Night get revealed to just be the natural order of things, albeit hidden from normal cognitive thought and rational access, but if you approach it right you can still do magic every once in awhile.</p><p>Those who are lucky enough to have an exceptional level of consciousness can proceed from here to continue to amplify their abilities. Most people will ‘burn out’ when they try, direct access to the divine is a heady and intense thing that can’t be done frequently or kept up long enough for the rational mind to continue to study how it works.</p><p>If you keep pushing past this obstacle, you’ll finally earn the real stuff. Pretty sure Steve Jobs had it. What he did with Apple and Pixar is nothing short of spectacular.</p><p>You push past by going on more spiritual journeys. Each journey brings a high point and a dark night. Each time you gain more agency over yourself and learn how to better channel the divine.</p><p>True enlightenment is reached when the highs and lows cease to be noticeable, but you still have spiritual journeys. This is called <i>nonduality,</i> where the being is no longer bound to the ego-driven interpretations that create those highs and lows. The spiritual journey is no longer mystical and just the normal way of existing, and you are recast into the role of a mere participant in a divine flow.</p>
