---
layout: post
title: Does a spiritually enlightened person make mistakes? If so, does he&#47;she feel regret?
date: 2019-05-27
---

<p>Nothing about the spiritual journey does anything to alleviate the basic ignorance of being human. It doesn’t turn you into a magical superman with the ability to get answers from God on every little thing your heart desires, instantly. You’re still a human and you still are a limited one. Being that you are still ignorant about many things, you will make mistakes.</p><p>What the spiritual journey does eventually do is awaken you to the boundless luminescence of all things. So things will often happen to remind you that even when you make mistakes, many times those mistakes are later revealed to be hidden blessings.</p><p>Like the parable of the farmer who refuses to see events as good or bad. His son falls from a horse and so he breaks his leg, the farmer refuses to see this as a bad thing. Later on the army comes looking for conscripts and they pass his son up.</p><p>Deep, profound human experience still happens and the experiences are still deeply affecting. But in an enlightened person, these experiences happen in the context of a life that is already full of amazing, profound experiences that aren’t really tied to any major life events. So the ‘real’ events’ emotional content blend in with the normally felt presence. So deep regret might mix with sublime joy.</p><p>To become enlightened is to embrace a world in which no felt emotion prevents any other felt emotion from also being present. The identity that would choose that one emotion is more important than the other is muted, absent, not really all that interested in making the choice. Identity is removed from lesser concerns such as deciding on the importance of content, and instead you simply exist <b>as</b> the content that’s being experienced. You are the regret, you are the pain, you are the joy. You are the crazy sublime blending of divine love and limited single-pointedness. There is no person left to suffer through the regret and pain, so they simply pass through until their natural end, then something else arises.</p>
