---
layout: post
title: What does it feel like to interact with Mystic in person?
date: 2019-05-15
---

<p>Really depends on what mood the mystic is in at that time, and the context you’re interacting with him in. But generally speaking there’s always a feeling of great distance that is often worked on and encouraged by the mystic. My existence, my experience, is so far away from ordinary existence and experience that it takes a lot of bridging to communicate even the most basic concepts I work with.</p><p>If you read through my ~3k Quora answers you can get a sense for what I’m working through most of the time, which can be roughly articulated as “trying to understand existence at the meta level, beyond reality.”</p><p>I do have regular, ‘normal’ types of experiences. But these too are dense and hard to fully articulate in a way that can be related with using ordinary human frames. So I tend to refrain from even trying. Otherwise I find myself doing excessive ‘justification’. “Why didn’t you just do X?” “Well because I was looking for the universe reaction so I can better understand Y” “You’re thinking about this way too much” “Hi I’m Vince, have we met? I’m the guy that thinks way too much, all the time.”</p><p>I do have close friends who I’ve spent the time to build up a ‘platform’ on which I can start to talk about my experiences without too much explication. And it all got <b>way</b> easier once I managed to find myself with a career and a privileged place in society.</p><p>If I can nail the tenor and mood, one of the feelings I like to create is a sense of limitless possibility. Most people are struggling to find meaning in their lives, I have an ability to see through barriers to find hidden ideas for resolution. My friends tend to really like it when I can do this for them. It seems to only work in person, though, not on textual mediums. Though some of it seems to come through for phone / Skype and somewhat more for video chat.</p><p>But through it all, I would say the common underlying feeling one seems to get when dealing with me in person is a sense of insurmountable distance. I’m flying at 40,000 feet most of the time, I can come down to Earth to interact with my favorite people, but then I launch back up immediately after we’re done. It’s absurdly difficult for me to build a context for an ongoing friendship so I focus on deepening whatever interaction I find myself in at any given time.</p>
