---
layout: post
title: Why do we romanticize twin flame relationships when they’re not a fairy tale?
date: 2019-04-30
---

<p>Because they offer the illusion of <i>rational perfection</i>. You don’t have to beat your head over date after date, just wait for the universe to show you your perfect partner. You don’t have to work to learn coping, communication, and other relationship skills, you just have to wait for the ‘twin flame journey’ to run its course.</p><p>As somebody whose spent a long long time exploring and making sense of the spiritual, the twin flame phenomenon both scares the crap out of me and makes me question my faith that spirituality is truly universally-benign. I can’t cop out of it like I do with cults by saying it’s a political and psychological phenomenon masquerading as a spiritual one.</p><p>No, this is people having faith in something that’s clearly very bad for them. And there’s no big bad con man at the top taking all the donations. Thus, the only cop-out I have is the same one I us is the notion that people who fall into them need the lesson more than they needed their faith validated. And that’s a tough one to stomach.</p><p>But stomach it I must. The reality is, human ego can put itself in some really gnarly places. The story of Adam and Eve illustrates that, even given <i>literally</i> everything the heart could desire, humans will consistently choose the ability to destroy themselves over safety and comfort. And what is the knowledge of good and evil if not the ability to destroy yourself and others?</p><p>In my own spiritual journey, many times I have found myself tricked by God. I wanted things, God know I wanted them, God pretends He’s going to give them to me, but the gift was a lie, an illusion, a scam, specifically designed to get me to buy in deeper and deeper. Eventually the lie is revealed and I can only look at God and ask, “why?”</p><p>And the answer to that is never simple. I have to deeply analyze what happened and come to the conclusion that any other way we could have come up with to deal with the silly desires I’d had in my head and the mindset behind them wouldn’t have really done the trick. The opportunity to examine / wallow in my own character afforded by the period after the ‘big reveal’ was also crucial.</p><p>Most people who get invested in this Twin Flame nonsense are not going to ever have a ‘big reveal’ like I did. Maybe one day when they’re older they’ll get an opportunity to reflect back on it and marvel at how silly they were.</p><p>But their faiths will be shattered. God never removes hope completely, but many people lose faith and then never get it back for the rest of their lives. The question I have is, is it worth it? The answer I get back is unsettling. God granting the wishes of a seeker of a Twin Flame journey is <b>worse</b> than shattering their faith. The delusion really is that bad. For God to grant their wish, He would have to force two people that aren’t suited for each other into a relationship anyway.</p><p>And looking at <b>that</b> outcome is what finally makes me relax.</p>
