---
layout: post
title: Enlightenment: If you are not your mind, then who are you?
date: 2019-02-07
---

<p>The answer to that is magical and weird.</p><p>On the surface, everything you do is ordered by your mind. Your thoughts about yourself feed into your actions and provide for a sense of agency. This remains true even when enlightened. The self is still present, thoughts still happen, and they still feed into agency.</p><p>For most, this is as far as one gets. I’ve seen many people that feel like they are constrained by their imperfect minds. And so this is true, so long as you’re identifying simply as a mind.</p><p>The process of awakening involves a lot of study and learning. The study and learning happen in the mind. But it slowly alerts you to a different way of conceiving self. The next step outside of mind is pure awareness. Meditation is needed to access this. The study and learning teach you how.</p><p>When one meditates, one starts to escape the hell of mind-identification. I’ve watched many, many people do this, and watched the process in myself, of the building of the watcher. It is a neurological phenomenon that slowly changes the way mind operates. A ‘two-tier’ system is created. The low mind which continues to operate in the same way the person is trying to escape from, and the upper mind which slowly gains an agency of its own.</p><p>This upper mind is what’s variously referred to as the third eye, the watcher, or the big-s Self. It is the struggle of most spiritual seekers to reframe identification around this upper mind and, because it is so difficult, it is as far as most spiritual disciplines and exercises will take you. It’s a wonderful thing, learning to exercise agency over your base mind, and it shouldn’t be maligned as ‘basic’ or whatever.</p><p>But it’s not enlightenment. To become enlightened, one needs to carry on further, through another gateway, another frame for organizing agency. To do this one must shatter the illusion of reality.</p><p>How this happens is different for each person. When this happened to me, I became aware of this immense, ineffable, yet still surprisingly relatable, <i>presence</i> that I shared my mind with. When I became aware of it, I started communicating with it. It communicated back. We still communicate, to this day.</p><p>It displayed an effortless command over everything I had struggled to understand, for years. Made it seem like all my struggles were for absolutely nothing. All of my tricks, all of my ideas, all of my yearnings, were nothing compared to this impossibly huge thing.</p><p>And so obviously I would ask what it was. A straight answer I am consistently denied. It’s sharing its presence with me and blends its agency with mine.</p><p>After a few years of near-constant communion with this presence, I started to read the Bible. Understanding dawned on me of the spiritual meaning behind the words. But my acceptance of Christianity is thwarted by my experience with its primary protagonist, God. I cannot accept theology concerning that which I can directly experience and ask questions of. Jesus is God, sure. But so is the rest of us, we are made in His image.</p><p>Eastern spirituality points towards the same truth as Western spirituality. Everybody is trying to make sense of the same, singular truth. And that truth is the Presence.</p><p>Enlightenment is simply the removal of all obstacles separating you from it. All the study and meditation does is prepare you for that moment. You’ll awaken, then fall back down into your slumber. God does not do all His work all at once, we are to be alive <i>forever</i>.</p><p>The Presence manifests in everyone slightly differently. It tends to drive us to dogmatism. I see many who state with firm authority that the self doesn’t exist, that the mind doesn’t exist, not even seeing the personality dynamics they’re using even in that very moment that give away the lie.</p><p>It’s not that you’ve managed to see through to the true nature of existence, it’s just that you’ve managed to find an aspect of Presence and you’re mistaking that aspect for the whole. You need to be enlightened of such dogmas before you can see through to the thunderous rapture beneath.</p><p>And once you’ve glimpsed it, the near-tortuous splendor of the accumulated wonders of eternity, mind rebels, jumps back into its skin. The endless onslaught that we’ve named, “divinity,” is careful never to strip you fully of your identity. The tricks, the techniques, so slavishly devoted to when you were getting started, they are returned to you, with the added gift of understanding of where they fit in the grand scheme of things.</p><p>This state, where the mind still does its job, where it had always been doing its job, even while witnessing the awesome majesty of Presence, is enlightenment. Every last little thing you would use to point to in a vain effort to distinguish yourself, to position yourself, to understand yourself, is revealed to be utterly pointless. You are God, yet you are not God. The ways in which you are God are gifts from God, and the ways you are not God are also gifts from God.</p><p>The illusion of reality is shattered, the illusion of identity is shattered, all that is left is you and the Presence. And you’ll never be sure where you end and it begins. But you’ll never get tired of trying to figure it out. And neither will God.</p>
