---
layout: post
title: Assuming souls exist, do they also have varying degrees of intelligence, like that of physical brains? Not talking about wisdom or accumulated knowledge, but more on mental capacity or &quot;brainpower&quot;.
date: 2019-01-22
---

<p>Dr. David R. Hawkins had the realization that a person has a level of consciousness that they carried with them their whole life that determined things like intelligence and wisdom. I read his works deeply, and when I tried to apply them to my own life, I found the only way it really works is to split the concept into two. Level of surrender, and level of responsiveness.</p><p>A person’s level of surrender can be changed through meditation or prayer or other kinds of mysticism like leaps of faith. A person’s level of responsiveness can be changed by doing things that one really, really, really enjoys doing. Their brains light on fire and start pumping information through it like it’s on steroids or something. Subsequently, the amount of information the brain processes normally is increased.</p><p>Level of consciousness is an abstraction over these two elements. Unsplit, a person’s level of consciousness tends to gradually increase over the course of the person’s life, as a simple matter of natural experience and growth. Split into the two aspects, a person’s level of surrender and level of responsiveness tend to be conserved between them. If you surrender more, you’re not really focusing heavily on things because you’re losing your identification with them. If you focus really hard on something, then your world gets reduced and so you’ll perceive fewer of the grand parallels that naturally lead to greater levels of surrender.</p><p>It’s quite difficult indeed to increase the rate at which you are both surrendering, and becoming more responsive.</p>
