---
layout: post
title: If I am lonely, and enjoy it, will my lack of sociability somehow &quot;catch up&quot; to me in the future?
date: 2019-01-16
---

<p>Yeah. It will. One day you’ll look out at all your less-solitary peers and wonder why they’re all more successful than you.</p><p>Look, I get it. Solitude is healing, simple, and you can do whatever the heck you want. I’m an introvert’s introvert. Put me in a group of more than three introverts and while they’re all happily chattering amongst themselves, I just want to go home and play Zelda. Three is the limit, and even with three they have to be a) good friends, and b) talking about something I’m actually interested in. With two I can relax on b). With one they don’t even have to be a good friend.</p><p>Regardless of my personal predilections, I have over the years cultivated places in my life where I could be social, refusing the siren’s call of my bedroom and comfortable solitude. When I didn’t have a job during my twenties, I’d spend a whole 8-hour ‘shift’ at the coffee shop. The connections I made there eventually turned into a web development career.</p><p>I went to the same bar for years. Honestly, it sucked. I never could find my ‘tribe’ and I just couldn’t ever fit into the bar clique. But I kept going because I knew I needed to develop my interpersonal skills. I wish I could say that led to me finding my amazing wife or whatever but it hasn’t and that’s specifically because I just couldn’t gel with them.</p><p>Refusing to develop your social network means the number of people you can rely on when it gets hard just gets smaller and smaller over time.</p>
