---
layout: post
title: Why were dogs born being a dog? Why didn&#39;t they deserve to be a human? Why will they never experience being a human? Is it fair?
date: 2019-01-27
---

<p>My understanding is that forms of agency have a limitation in how much consciousness they can express. A human being can express a near-unlimited amount of consciousness.</p><p>Consciousness is divided into level of surrender and level of perceptive responsiveness. Responsiveness governs things like intelligence and wisdom. Surrender governs how well you are able to get along in the world.</p><p>These two aspects of consciousness are present and witnessed in both animals and humans. Some animals are dumb but still manage to find nice lives anyway, like really cute dogs that get petted on and taken care of. At first blush it might look like whether a dog manages to be nice and accommodating has more to do with luck than personality.</p><p>But the reality is there are really cute dogs that have crappy personalities. And there are really nice dogs that aren’t cute. We as humans like seeing dogs that are both cute and have nice personalities, and so we tend to see that more.</p><p>A cute, dumb dog is like the cheerleader who might not be as smart as you, but will have a much easier life than you ever will. She’s willing to fit herself to society and doesn’t expect society to fit to her. Her level of surrender exceeds her level of perceptive responsiveness and therefore she will have a wonderful, if unexciting life compared to someone who is smarter.</p><p>Animal societies look a lot like human societies. Individuals can find meaning in their existence regardless of how conscious they are. The mechanics are governed by perceptive responsiveness and surrender. Together they form a being’s ‘level’ of consciousness. A form of consciousness, animal, human, can express a wide range of ‘levels’.</p><p>So doggies can grow as doggies and maybe next life they will express their consciousness in a new form, perhaps even as a human.</p><p>But think about low-functioning humans, and how they more resemble animals than people. The same consciousness expressed as a nice, friendly animal might express as an ugly, brutish human. They just won’t be able to handle it.</p><p>I think beings graduate in consciousness and beings may bounce back and forth between human form and animal form until they ‘get the hang’ of being a human. Eventually they learn how to use the human mind with its ability to reason well.</p>
