---
layout: post
title: Why is it difficult for people to understand their own minds?
date: 2019-01-16
---

<p>Because the thing that is doing the understanding, is the thing that must be understood. There are techniques to drive a wedge between parts of the mind in order to enable study, but they are difficult and for anybody to get anything real out of them, they have to be done specifically in moments in which it is the hardest to do them.</p><p>Introspection is surprisingly hard for many people. It is easy for some. The people who have it easy cannot understand the plight of the people that don’t have it easy. But introspection will allow you to come to an understanding of the <i>behavior</i> of mind. If I want to know how I am likely to act in a given situation, introspection is the go-to tool.</p><p>More difficult than introspection is meditation. When you meditate, the conscious, ‘low’ mind is switched off so that that a higher part of the mind can take the reins. This higher part of the mind has a much bigger ‘sandbox’ to play in. It can create visualizations, journey through dreamscapes, listen to itself. Introspection can answer the <i>how</i> of the behavior of the mind, while meditation is perfect for exploring <i>why</i>.</p><p>What makes meditation more suited for determining root causes has to do with the quietness that must be created. When the mind is quieted, than any random thought can be assumed to have a say in the object of exploration. When the mind is not quieted, which is the condition that ‘mere’ introspection happens in, then you need to use cognitive logic to weigh possibilities against each other.</p><p>But meditation can be unbelievably difficult if you don’t really possess the gift for it, and even if you do it’s hard to do anything more than just entertain yourself. Many hours of learning and study must be given.</p><p>Luckily, we don’t really have to understand ourselves in order to progress as people. Our daily lives suffice well enough to give us challenges that we can overcome and learn from. It’s only for those who aren’t satisfied with those challenges that meditation really can give the ability to operate on another level.</p>
