---
layout: post
title: How would God react if I arrived in heaven and started to berate him for the terrible things in the world?
date: 2019-01-31
---

<p>Emmanuel Swedenborg taught that hell is just another part of heaven, populated by all the people who love to be selfish. Hell is literally created by selfishness. Spirits that exist there have but one goal, to destroy all the things you love, and that which you love is what constitutes your core essence. Destroying that which you love will literally cause your spirit to lose its essence, meaning it doesn’t exist anymore.</p><p>God tolerates these hellish spirits. He allows them to exist, even if He doesn’t allow those spirits to accomplish their goals. He allows them because He sees that the good need evil to struggle against if the good is to ever become purified enough to enter into Heaven. God responds to beings who insist on living in hell, whose purpose is to destroy all love in the world, with a particularly tailored kind of love. He provides for them, even encourages them to chase what they love, even if what they love is to destroy what you love.</p><p>God’s love truly knows no bounds. He has love for all the good things in the world, as well as all the hells that also exist in the world. His plan is to eventually use the good, not to vanquish the evil, but to purify and heal the evil, turning evil into good.</p><p>So if you entered into Heaven, with a thoroughly sour attitude, one that can only engender more hate and anger, God can and will only respond with love. Swedenborg teaches that upon death and rebirth in Heaven, each person is attended to by two heavenly spirits whose jobs it is to fulfill your needs. Once your needs are fulfilled, they will talk and discuss with you your wants. If your wants are not heavenly, they will eventually sense this and leave you, and two spiritual spirits will come to discuss with you what kind of role you can have in the spirit realm.</p><p>The spirit realm is between heaven and hell. It is not dominated by love or by selfishness, but rather by the natural order of things. If you’re not satisfied with naturalness, then the spiritual guides will eventually leave you, and hellish guides will take their place. The hellish guides will teach you the skills you need to thrive in a world in whish selfishness is the rule.</p><p>There are not only two heavenly guides, two spiritual guides, and two hellish guides. There are multitudes of gradations, finding your place in the afterlife takes some time. The heavenly guides will get less and less heavenly as you send them away. The spiritual guides will become less and less natural as you send them away. The hellish guides will just get more and more selfish until they’re just basically purified hate.</p><p>I like hearing about Swedenborg’s vision of the afterlife because it actually makes sense, and because you can also translate it to daily life. We are constantly vacillating between more and less selfish mindsets. There are always good principles we could be looking for and checking into but instead we choose either to go it alone or to embrace selfishness instead. There’s a vast continuum between good and evil that all things and mindsets inhabit. Whatever Swedenborg claims is allegorically applicable to modern, daily life.</p><p>And so your question has both a literal component, and an allegorical one. If we accept Swedenborg, and I see no reason why not if you are Christian, then once you cross over, the heavenly spirits that get assigned to you aren’t going to really be interested in your points of view, that you hate God because He lets terrible things happen, but rather on what you need at that point in time. So they might respond to your attack by taking you down into Hell so you can see where all these terrible things are coming from, because that’s what you seem to need at the moment.</p><p>Will God be there? Of course. Will God hear your interlocutions? Of course. But He’s hearing them now, so it’s not like there will be all that much different in Heaven. You don’t have to wait until you die to tell God this, and it will have as much effect in Heaven as it does here.</p><p>For Heaven and Hell are not just places in some far-off afterlife. They’re right here and now, and you can go visit either anytime you want, just by asking God for a taste. If you like Heaven then you can work to bring Heaven into your daily life and you don’t really have to wait until you die to experience it.</p>
