---
layout: post
title: Why does Jed McKenna describe enlightenment as insufferably boring as well as infinitely astonishing?
date: 2019-02-15
---

<p>Everybody experiences awakening / enlightenment differently, which makes it hard to define in a way where you just can’t make a cogent argument about whether someone is enlightened or not. For me, I’m more inclined to give someone the benefit of the doubt and say, sure, you’re enlightened, if you’re trying to present yourself as such. Because I want to know what you have to say, what your inner experience is like.</p><p>Because from my perspective, enlightenment is just a word you use to describe someone who has ‘enough’ spiritual ‘advancement’ in order to satisfy social expectations. It’s not really possible to make the concept of enlightenment “fully rational” in that we can articulate, with perfect clarity, what it is and isn’t.</p><p>Most people’s spiritual journeys start with an awakening and end with an integration. We call that integration enlightenment. It satisfies a social need to make enlightenment accessible to anyone who wants it, but suffers under the pain of subjectivity.</p><p>The awakening introduces you to Presence and grants you access to a new manner of existence that is defined in spiritual terms rather than mundane ones. Enlightenment is the casting off of the remaining trappings of mundane life. In general. Like I said, everyone’s different.</p><p>I have not explored Jed McKenna but the quoted statement speaks to me of awakening and not enlightenment. There are loads of spiritual ‘teachers’ out there who will do all kinds of mystical journeys and mistake the ability to have those mystical journeys for enlightenment. We have a term for these people, Dark Night Yogis.</p><p>These are very spiritual people who nonetheless have lots and lots of unresolved emotional issues. They’re constantly questing and searching for something they think lie s outside themselves but can’t admit can only be found within. They’re always going on and on about techniques that provoke cool experiences, but never take the time to describe what they are and what they do to you.</p><p>Following a Dark Night Yogi can be an intense and heady experience, especially for a newcomer to spiritual awakening. I spent several months exploring with one so I got to know the mentality very intimately.</p><p>Insufferable boredom is not something that someone whose existence is dominated by nondualism can experience. I personally can be profoundly bored, but the boredom drives me to do something, then my natural curiosity will take hold and the boredom is gone. Or I’ll dive into a little spiritual adventure.</p><p>There’s occasional boredom, but I’d never call it insufferable boredom. That’s tantamount to saying that the universe just doesn’t have the ability to constantly entertain and educate me, and that’s just silly.</p><p>But I can easily see how a Dark Night Yogi would say something like this. Their spiritual journey is expected to fulfill all their desires, all the time. That it’s not doing that causes boredom. I’m very familiar with the ego dynamics, going through my own Dark Night showed me how it works. And knowing how it works allowed me to resolve the inner conflict.</p><p>As my spiritual journey deepened, I realized that everything I experienced relates somehow to that journey. And so I pay extremely deep attention to everything in my life to look for those connections, because I can find them literally anywhere. There’s literally always, at every single moment of every single day, no matter where you’re at or what you’re doing, something interesting to see and explore and think about.</p><p>People are bored when those things to explore and think about don’t satisfy their lesser desires. Resolving that conflict will bring you closer to enlightenment.</p>
