---
layout: post
title: Do you agree that religious belief cannot be founded on reason and rationality, and requires a &#39;leap of faith&#39; as Kierkegaard described?
date: 2019-06-06
---

<p>Kierkegaard was well-intentioned, but ultimately wrong on this point. Religious belief is indeed founded on reason and rationality, rather than faith.</p><p>Let’s jump back a little and look at the philosophy questions that Kierkegaard was dealing with. Absurdism is what I want to focus on. The question at hand is, what to do about the fact that the world seems inherently meaningless? In Kierkegaard’s day, only three answers were evident, suicide, religion, and acceptance.</p><p>Camus, the champion of acceptance, saw religion’s rules and restrictions as a limit on the freedom of mankind, and that one should cast these off to obtain ultimate freedom. Kierkegaard saw this as ‘demoniac madness’. "He rages most of all at the thought that eternity might get it into its head to take his misery from him!"</p><p>In other words, Kierkegaard thought that the source of absurdism as a philosophy is an underlying misery. Misery is what focuses you on absurdity and drives out this ‘solution’. Religion, the belief in a divine order with a divine entity at the head, insists that the absurdity of the world is only apparent, an illusion, once you get a little closer and look at it, everything does indeed make sense.</p><p>This ‘getting a little closer’ is the leap of faith. It’s a leap across the gap of the absurd into the heavenly realm. Once inside the heavenly realm everything makes sense again.</p><p>Camus saw this as ‘philosophical suicide’, in other words, no real difference from committing actual suicide in order to resolve the issue. You’re deciding that there’s no such thing as the absurd and simply erasing it from your field of view, destroying your ability to do philosophy.</p><p>I stand with Kierkegaard on this. All things are rational, all positions exist on a continuity, with enough work you can move from any position to any other position without needing a ‘leap of faith’.</p><p>That said, leaps of faith are fun and powerful in their own right. Camus himself is making a leap of faith in his determination that religion is unnecessary, rather than placing faith in God, he’s merely moving that faith onto himself and onto the power of philosophy.</p><p>To put this all in a few words, you don’t get to escape faith just by declaring you have reason now. The difference is an imagined one.</p><p>So why am I still saying that Kierkegaard is wrong? It’s simple, he didn’t go far enough. He accepted the dichotomy between faith and reason, that he chose faith over reason doesn’t make the dichotomy any more germane. It’s not a material discussion, faith was rational all along.</p><p>It’s not really his fault. He didn’t have the capacity to see how to draw a line connecting human nature to God connecting all the dots.</p><p>We can take a historical perspective here. Judaism grew out of ancient Near East religious traditions. When the Canaanite priests got wind of Egypt, it kicked off a slow shedding of their pantheon and eventual emergence of one God. This is chronicled in the Hebrew Bible.</p><p>These Jews lived in covenant with their one God through thick and through thin until their own arrogance brought the Romans down on their heads hard. This is chronicled in the deuterocanonical books. Finally, an answer to the many questions plaguing the Jews was given them, in the form of a particular prophet. This story is told four times by the four gospels.</p><p>Finally, a new plan for living under God was formulated and spread throughout Rome, bringing God’s people back into covenant and making religious faith inclusive rather than exclusive. This is chronicled in the rest of the New Testament.</p><p>The works of scripture themselves contain answers to the philosophical question that Kierkegaard and Camus debated. Specifically Ecclesiastes, and if you want to go deeper, Job.</p><p>And you don’t need to make a leap of faith in order to appreciate them from a <i>literary</i> perspective. It’s only when you demand that God <b>not</b> show His hand that you can have a ‘philosophical’ discussion. The question of absurdity <i>already had a perfectly good answer,</i> if a complicated one requiring the answer to be spread out over two books.</p><p>These works can be approached rationally using the tools of literary analysis. These tools didn’t exist at the time the books were written but that doesn’t mean they’re not available.</p><p>In the end, philosophy wants to muscle in on a realm that theology had been occupying for thousands of years. It can only add to the existing explanations, it can’t claim to have gotten there first.</p><p>That said, there’s much value in philosophy. It would have been impossible for Christianity to spread were it not for the influence and ideas of Greeks steeped in the lore of their ancient philosophers. Judaism is not a religion built to spread, it took an outsider, a gentile, to tell early Christians that they did not have to follow Jewish covenant law in order to believe in Jesus and join his church. Greek intellectualism was sorely needed to combat Jewish arrogance and hard-heartedness.</p>
