---
layout: post
title: What does it mean to be devoid of empathy? When a person tells you his problems what do you think?
date: 2019-03-28
---

<p>Empathy arises out of the twin operation of two facilities that the brain has. Without both of these facilities, whatever response you have to a person cannot be said to be an <i>empathic</i> one.</p><p>First, you must be able to feel and understand your emotions. The feeling and the understanding develop separately in the brain. Feeling is unconscious. Everybody experiences some form of emotion, as emotion is the name given to brain activity originating in both the limbic system and in the basal ganglia. Fear arises out of the basal ganglia. Love arises out of the limbic system. For a person to experience no emotion at all means that both of these parts of the brain are completely shut off. This would result in quick death.</p><p>Understanding your emotions is a process that is generally understood to conclude sometime in your 20s-30s. Some people can stunt their emotional development through various means, usually through alcohol abuse.</p><p>Stunted emotional development means you feel emotions, you’re just unable to connect them with a source. What people do when they can’t connect emotions to a source we generally attribute to one or multiple kinds of toxicity. For example, if a person takes all the emotions they experience and claims other people are the source of them, this is called narcissistic. If they simply don’t care at all, this is called psychopathic.</p><p>If these behavioral patterns set into the person’s personality, meaning they’ve become fixed parts of their identity, then we generally consider that person to have a personality <i>disorder</i>. A personality disorder generally considers the source of the patterns to be the parts of the brain responsible to be deactivated. This deactivation is generally attributed to what’s called <i>trauma</i>, which is an injury sustained not to the body, but to the person’s concept of self. The brain is plastic and can shut damaged parts of itself off.</p><p>But any given lack of empathy need not involve brain damage. This is where the other component of empathy comes in, the ability to recognize others emotions and to feel them in oneself. This is one of the ancient functions of the limbic system ever since it was developed by mammals. Mammals live in herds and groups and need quick ways of communicating with each other. The facial nerve, governing facial expression, is directly connected to the limbic system and is one of the few nervous connections that don’t go through the spinal cord.</p><p>This makes emotional communication between mammals extremely quick. You react to the expression before you come to cognitive awareness of what it is what you sense the other person is feeling. This all happens in the limbic system, which mediates and regulates all sensory information coming in from the spinal cord and vagus nerve. The vagus nerve regulates many of what’s called ‘gut feeling’.</p><p>So your expression of other people’s emotional states happens both extremely fast, and if the emotion being expressed is sufficiently strong, felt all over the body.</p><p>A person can choose to not directly respond to others emotions. This is perceived as lack of empathy, and if it’s purposeful, it is generally called sociopathic. Sociopathy is when a person consistently makes choices, thus writing it into their personality, to disacknowledge others’ emotional states.</p><p>Some sociopaths even call their sociopathy ‘enlightenment’.</p>
