---
layout: post
title: If I was enlightened, what would you ask me?
date: 2019-01-23
---

<p>I would ask you a number of questions designed so that I can understand your level of perceptive responsiveness, and your level of surrender, as I am intensely curious about how they interplay together, and a person claiming enlightenment is an instant canvas on which that interplay can be explored in a way that natural existence tends to hide.</p><p>At some point, I would be able to make a judgment as to whether you’re actually enlightened or not. You may actually be enlightened, in which case I’d share my findings and we could rejoice together in how amazing that is, or you may be so hopeless that I’ll simply stand pat on my intuition, quietly supporting you and gently encouraging you to discover new ways to surrender.</p><p>Those two are not the only possibilities, there is an even more amazing one, that you are not quite enlightened yet, but could find the state very soon. This would make me far more excited than the other two possibilities, because it means we can aim higher than glory or encouragement.</p><p>This determination would be made not just by my own judgment and intuition, but by also asking God to show me, the specifics of how someone actually gets close to nonduality. God will do what God always does when I ask Him to show me something, He will create a series of events that will make the dynamics very clear to me.</p><p>If it is true, that you are close to enlightenment and that you are in front of me claiming enlightenment, then I will have a clear message from God and I will commit immediately to doing whatever it takes to bring you into the realization of lack of identification as anything other than pure spirit. Nothing is more important to me than acting in concert with said Spirit, and no expense or action will be spared to do so.</p><p>I have met enlightened people before, it’s an intensely fun and unique experience, like, well, everything else, but characterized as there being nowhere to go, nothing to accomplish, because the individual has already made the realization.</p><p>It’s not that there is nothing left to do, existence still has meaning even when enlightened, but that there’s nothing <b>I</b> can add to the person’s spiritual growth. Our time together is but one of the endless joyful encounters that make up the existence of the enlightened being.</p><p>Not being enlightened means there’s still ego to see through. Being enlightened means that ego will rise and subside of its own accord and for its own reasons. Enlightenment makes the ego a mere character in the story, not the hero or the villain.</p>
