---
layout: post
title: Regarding sin and salvation, assuming that we are all sinners, if I am to be made sinless then my sin must somehow be taken away from the creation of my soul continuing forever, yet how can that happen without altering the past?
date: 2019-01-21
---

<p>Sin is a moral concept that stems from Abrahamic theology, so you need to look to the Torah, also called the Old Testament, to figure out how it works. But just reading the Bible will only yield an exceedingly flat understanding of what sin is, one that is hampered by the passage of thousands of years since the concepts were formed.</p><p>In the interest of space I will speak more about the differences between our conception of sin, and how the ancient Hebrews thought about it. We look at sin as an indelible moral stain on our characters, we did something wrong, so we must be bad people, we’re sinners.</p><p>But the Hebrews didn’t really think this way. A sin is a slight against somebody, or against God. It was a <b>personal</b> thing, not a philosophical thing. You cannot avoid sinning, humans are weak and limited. You are going to sin no matter what you do.</p><p>So the Hebrews created increasingly elaborate systems for avoiding sin, but their scriptural writings also said that God could forgive sin if you did the right things. These weren’t abstract things, the Hebrews had a regime of animal sacrifice whereby they would ritually slaughter animals and give them to God so that God will forgive the sins they committed since the last time they performed sacrifice.</p><p>This was called a <i>covenant</i>. Normal covenants were traditionally made in ancient Israel by writing them down on a sheepskin and tearing it in half. If a dispute arose, both parties could take their piece of the sheepskin to a judge and put them together to recreate the original covenant. Breaking a covenant rule was a sin, whether the covenant was with another person, or with God, you sinned against that entity. A human judge would adjudicate your sin if it was a human covenant, and God himself would adjudicate if your sin was against God. God could choose to forgive, or not.</p><p>The covenant relationships Israel shared with God changed over the course of their history. Rules were added, and forgotten. The people of Israel had to maintain their relationship with God even while under foreign rule. So the rules had to be at least somewhat flexible. The aforementioned animal sacrifice regime could only last until the Temple, the Second Mount, was razed to the ground by the Romans.</p><p>Rome cleaved Israel in twain, not spatially but spiritually. Some Jews decided to follow a weird, subversive prophet called Yeshua, who claimed to better understand God and what he wants from us than the established leadership.</p><p>Yeshua, who we now call Jesus, made two very specific changes in the covenant relationship with God. First, he recast the relationship with God as something that <b>anybody</b> could have, not just Israelites. The old cult of animal sacrifice could no longer be relied upon, what are people in Egypt going to do to forgive their sins, travel to Israel every single week?</p><p>And so the process for forgiving sins and attaining salvation had to be centered on some other activity. Rather than sacrifice, Jesus wanted you to pray. Prayer, turning your mind to God, instantly forgives you of sin. Later, the church Jesus built elevated Jesus to divinity, but Jesus never himself claimed this in his lifetime, calling himself the Son of Man, which was a phrase steeped in Jewish and Hebrew lore.</p><p>Why does prayer forgive sin? It is because you opened your heart to God. You’re not just sitting there mumbling words, your actual belief, your <i>faith</i>, takes hold in your heart, softening it and allowing God’s grace to flow through it.</p><p>This is what forgives sin. The redemption process that happens when you open your heart and mind to God. It changes how you think and act. You simply would not think of sinning the same way again. So the prayer process not only forgives you, but keeps you from sinning again in the future. You are cleansed, healed by the Lord.</p>
