---
layout: post
title: Why is it that someone who claims he is enlightened is considered not to be one?
date: 2019-03-20
---

<p>I consider it a bit of a personal writing challenge to be able to claim enlightenment in a way that doesn’t trigger the knee-jerk, oh-that-guy’s-got-a-huge-ego response. One of the first discoveries I made was: don’t claim enlightenment unless you have a legitimate need to do so, and that need can only come from outside the self. That kicked off an exploration into the middle ground between acknowledgement of enlightenment and the perception of such.</p><p>As I settled into the public persona of someone who isn’t afraid to claim enlightenment, but hopefully isn’t as gauche about it as, ahem, <a href="/profile/Artem-Boytsov">one bright shining Quora star</a>, (how does that bastard have more followers than me?!?!?!) I came to realize that the dynamic works better and better if you can display <i>mastery </i>over ego.</p><p>Meaning I can put up an illusion of ego and then dispel it in the next breath, similar to how I’ve seen a lot of super-relatable Quorans like <a href="/profile/Sean-Kernan">Sean Kernan</a> or <a href="/profile/Habib-Fanny">Habib Fanny</a> do. Because I just don’t have the education or patience for research like super-smart Quorans like <a href="/profile/Jenny-Hawkins-4">Jenny Hawkins</a> or <a href="/profile/Dimitris-Almyrantis">Dimitris Almyrantis</a>.</p><p>And then I looked at great, <i>authentic </i>Quorans like <a href="/profile/Shay-Posey">Shay Posey</a>, <a href="/profile/Pausha-Foley">Pausha Foley</a> and <a href="/profile/Paul-Follows">Paul Follows</a> and realize that, hey, I can describe and articulate personal experience without dispelling the illusion that I’m this hyper-enlightened sage with a zillion enlightenment points.</p><p>The idea, of course, here, is to project not just authenticity, but also <b>authority</b>, because of course what’s the point of being a great enlightened wonder-man if you can’t tell people what to do and have them do it? I want my cult, gosh-darnit. Gimme all ur worships. The only reason I’m here talking about this stuff is because I want to be adored. Glorify me, for I am your God, the second coming of Jesus. For you are weak, and I will give you strength.</p><p>Really plz don’t send me to Hell, God, I was just kidding! Seriously, I’ll be happy with making it to Top Writer, like that <a href="/profile/Peter-Taradash">other guy</a> whose super transparent about his status goals, don’t judge me or him for appreciating the beauty of young, nubile women even though I’m a supposedly enlightened holier-than-thou being! I’m not really an alcoholic womanizer, I swear! Forget all about that cult I just said!</p><p>To answer the question, (finally!) it’s because unless you can actually show your work, like your 5th grade math teacher demanded you do all those years ago and you hated then and you still hate now, am I projecting here?, and actually provide a rationale for why you consider yourself enlightened, the perception given is just going to be that you want your audience to believe you’re enlightened, not that you’re actually enlightened.</p>
