---
layout: post
title: Is Jim Carrey faking enlightenment?
date: 2019-05-03
---

<p>From the standpoint of meditation, energy, awakening, and enlightenment, acting is a very powerful thing to do. People are watching you, this has the effect of energizing you with their attention. Other people’s attention is like a drug to our nervous systems.</p><p>This energy goes all kinds of places. Fame really is a crazy thing. I’m never surprised when I meet an enlightened actor. The way I see it, it can go one of two ways, you can either let the energy wash over you and gradually change you, or you can wall it off so you can preserve a sense of individuality.</p><p>The energy is scary, scary in the same way enlightenment itself is, we feel ourselves slipping away. Not just in an energetic sense when it comes to acting, but because you know that what people are engaging with isn’t really you, it’s your ability to portray a character.</p><p>All energy really is at the very base level is “motivation to do things.” Money is a form of energy, When people actually do things, it moves the energy around. Fame is a kind of vortex of energy. It drives people to do all kinds of things. It’s a kind of magic. Note I’m not trying to invoke any actual magic here. You can study the kinds of motivation that fame produces in people, the causes don’t have to remain mysterious as in real magic.</p><p>But the psychological effects hew both ways, scouring the self away. When you’re strongly motivated to do something, your ego and superego fade while the id jumps forth. You find yourself doing things you never thought you would.</p><p>It’s not certain, by any means. Of course, actors don’t have their egos and superegos gone all the time. This is because enlightenment is a kind of illusion just like everything else. It’s a process of gradual recession of self. Fame provides a mechanism by which it happens just as meditation does. But it’s a series of small steps you take throughout your life. No one meditation makes you enlightened, no one acting performance ‘opens the floodgates’. Whatever experience you have will slowly recede from awareness.</p><p>That said, not all of the work is conscious. Much of it is unconscious, meaning you aren’t aware of it. It’s possible for your subconscious to be working on something while you think you’re just having a normal life. Say you’re reading a bunch of Tibetan Buddhist literature, not really doing any meditation. Then all of a sudden one day when you’re not expecting it it happens. Awakening. You’ll use the language of Tibetan Buddhism to understand what happened. But what happened is that the study primed your mind to start going in a direction. That direction eventually pulled your conscious mind along with it, provoking the awakening experience.</p><p>Enlightenment is when awakening isn’t really all that special to you anymore. You could have three of them in a day, or none for years. The self, the thing that is impressed and awed by the experience of awakening, can’t be impressed anymore because there’s no perceived separation between you and ‘kinds’ of experience. Awakened, bored, excited, serene, agitated, you experience all of them without the little separate part that wonders what or why or how or whether it could be any different.</p><p>The diversity of experience created by meditation can slowly bring you there. Or you can just be born with it. Or the same kinds of crazy energy that meditation brings you can be induced in other ways, say by being intensely focused on by many many people.</p><p>I’m not surprised that Jim Carrey is enlightened. I’d be more surprised if he <i>wasn’t</i>. Bill Murray, Morgan Freeman. Fame seems to have one of two outcomes. Either you surrender to it or you resist it. Surrender will eventually make you enlightened.</p>
