---
layout: post
title: Is telekinesis or mind bending powers et al a result of highly developed cognitive functions or a highly developed or differently-structured brain?
date: 2019-04-11
---

<p>My experience with magic was articulated here: <a href="/Can-you-do-real-magic/answer/Vincent-Guidry-1">Vincent Guidry's answer to Can you do real magic?</a> Inside this answer is another link detailing my personal experience with telekinesis.</p><p>In order to do real things with the divine in the world, you effectively have to do two things. First, you have to believe it’s possible, then you actually have to break the barrier. Both are extremely formidable barriers.</p><p>So let’s do a thought experiment. Imagine I make a statement to you that I believe in God. You understand what this means, you can fit this idea into your brain. You have prior examples to point to. This statement makes sense to you.</p><p>Okay, now I’m going to make a different statement. The statement is simply “God exists.” The difference between the first and the second statement is what I’m trying to drive at. You can understand what it means to have a <i>belief</i> in God. But it’s impossible to access the mindset behind the second statement <i>rationally</i> so you have to substitute the meaning behind it with the first statement.</p><p>This is the difference between belief and faith. Belief is a wish next to faith. But to get to the point where you can do real things with the divine, more is needed. Faith isn’t enough.</p><p>We can attack the second statement with the same toolset you’d use to try to understand anything that is irrational. There’s a gulf of understanding, so let’s build a bridge. God exists, so where is he? He’s immaterial. So how does he interact with people if not in a material fashion? Well through prayer and miracles. I’m going to stop here because these questions literally never end.</p><p>But you have to keep asking them in order to develop the ability to do magic. It’s how you deepen your relationship and interaction with this thing that you are asserting and believe to exist.</p><p>The ancient Hebrews came up with this rational framework for approaching God’s relationship with humanity, called <i>covenant</i>. A covenant goes beyond belief and faith, it actually provides a <i>structure</i> to your relationship with this non-material thing.</p><p>A perfect illustration of covenant can be found in the Book of Jonah. The narrative has Jonah defy God knowing everything will turn out fine. In so doing he takes what we would consider to be leaps of faith. He gets on a boat with a bunch of fishermen to get as far away from his assigned task as possible. He realizes what’s happening when the storm hits, doesn’t want the other fishermen to suffer for his defiance and so asks to be thrown overboard.</p><p>He’s not even fazed when a big fish picks him up and carries him back towards his duty. <i>He knew it would turn out this way</i>. He was safe in the hands of God. He just <i>hated</i> it. He begrudgingly does his assigned task and the story ends in a fit of hilarious pique, with the Lord basically <i>asking</i> Jonah whether He should spare the city he was charged with prophesying to!</p><p>This is what covenant with the Lord does, places you within His kingdom and at His mercy. You can stay here, or you can keep going, and even further deepen your relationship with the divine. The Lord, and the world He created is infinite, and can fit any ambition or flight of fancy.</p><p>To keep going, you need to start <i>mastering</i> divine energy. You get even closer to the Lord and the Lord shows you how His gifts work at a <i>granular</i> level. If I input something into a system, then that influence will find expression somewhere. The connection between what I put into it and what came out is what’s called a <i>correspondence</i>.</p><p>If I pray that something is going to happen, then I’m going to learn something from what does wind up happening. I had the sense last night of <i>energy</i>. If you read the previous answer about telekinesis, I was asked to push energy into the keys. The energy was real, it was thought energy, and it managed to actually find it’s way to its intended target.</p><p><i>Why</i> it found its way to its intended target is what’s interesting. If I had been directed to push energy into the keys and nothing happened, then that says something about my relationship with God. It’s going to make me less interested in engaging with God. So God set up this situation in which I had to make a little leap of faith, and then rewarded me with this amazing experience of manipulating the physical world with my will.</p><p>Energy finds the quickest route to expression. Faith allowed me to push the energy into God’s hands and then God pushed the energy where I wanted it to be. After the lesson was over, and God asked me if I wanted to work further on it, I realized exactly how these sorts of things work, at a <i>visceral</i> level. I’m changing my perception such that the physical world is manipulable purely by will. Once I realized what it was, I decided I didn’t really want it. I refocused on other aspects of my relationship with God.</p><p>Magic is the art of giving God no ways out other than the one which accomplishes your aims. It flips the relationship on its head. Not really my cup of tea. Sure, your brain is changed, and sure, you need to be capable of things like belief and faith. But in the end, you’re just trying to be God.</p>
