---
layout: post
title: If God was reincarnated as a human being and didn&#39;t know he or she was God, what would his or her personality be like?
date: 2019-02-02
---

<p>This question is near and dear to my heart.</p><p>It is a common, common experience for people to feel like they have been chosen by God for some thing. Some people feel like they are the reincarnation of Jesus or some other holy figure.</p><p>I’ve met many people with these experiences, and I’ve had them as well. I consider these things to be a part of a person’s spiritual identity. Not really the same thing as a Higher Self, but rather much lower, as a part of the lesser self that we tend to consider ourselves as 90% of the time. Spiritual techniques gradually expand our sense of self, and the natural consequence is that our self-conceptions change.</p><p>I treat my own spiritual identity the same way I treat all the other parts of my ego, with love and the kid gloves. I want to let my inner child express itself safely and in an interesting and fun way. So when my ego tells me I’m the greatest thing since sliced bread, I sit down and pay attention to the finger painting that my little monster made just for me.</p><p>You see, it’s fun to contemplate that I’m God, that the universe was made just for me to have fun in. And you know, it might even be true. All of my spiritual inquiry and experience tells me I was born enlightened, and that’s an amazingly special thing that I’m still wrapping my head around, every single day. It’s fun to let my imagination go wild, especially when it could well be true.</p><p>And so sure, what if I was God? What sort of personality might I have? Well, I’d be gentle and patient, with myself and others. Tolerant of their selfishness, giving of my attention. Willing to entertain wild flights of fancy. Human, in that I respond in a human way to things that happen to me. If something makes me mad, I don’t try to not be mad out of some perverse conception of what it means to be spiritual.</p><p>But my <i>actions</i> while I’m mad wouldn’t have any negative effect on myself or anybody else. Everything would serve a bigger plan, and nothing is left out in that plan. I would have human and God parts, and the God part would serve to remind me of my dual-citizenship in both worlds.</p><p>And well, I’d be a lot like Jesus. For He is the man God sent down to do His work on Earth. The gospels are mum on just when Jesus realized that He was God the Son. But if he was human, he had human physiology. When they poked Him in the ribs, blood poured out. He had a human brain and a human mind. He had a personality.</p><p>Children can be very very smart. But they need to be taught concepts in order to think about them. And the experiences one has in infancy typically don’t make memories. But it’s perfectly possible for Jesus to have been told in the womb that He’s the Son of God.</p><p>But how would Jesus have made sense of that? He still needed to be educated on what God is, so that Jesus could perform his ministry. Jesus was very very well-inured in the religion of the day. He knew what He was doing, the gospels have lots of amazing little details that one can dive into.</p><p>No, Jesus had a religious education the same way all Jews of the day would have had. It’s only after this education that God telling Jesus who He is, that it really starts to matter.</p><p>Being born the Son of God and not being aware of it, and being the Son of God and being aware of it but not able to really do anything about it, those two states seem to me to be pretty much exactly the same.</p>
