---
layout: post
title: Spiritually awaken person, how do you see these next ‘levels’ without any substance, like cannabis, psilocybin or LSD.?
date: 2019-05-02
---

<p>This is a pretty good question, and drives at the heart of what it means to ‘do’ mysticism. It’s one thing to have a spiritual experience. It’s another indeed to work out how to integrate spiritual experiences in a way that provides for a ‘complete’ worldview.</p><p>I’m not wholly averse to using drugs, my drug of choice at the moment is nothing more than plain alcohol. Alcohol has a long history of being used for spiritual exploration. One of George Gurdjieff’s techniques was to get someone so drunk their inner self would just pour forth given very little prodding.</p><p>So for many months my own technique has been to drink a few glasses of whiskey after work. This has an effect on my sleep, it makes me sleep really hard. I’ll go to bed at 12pm and wake up sometime around 5am. 5am is a perfect time for spiritual exploration and trance work. I’m nowhere near drunk, and in fact feel very rested. The rest, relaxation, and darkness amplify any spiritual experience I have.</p><p>That’s the thing about spiritual awakening. Once awakened, altered states of consciousness are <b>less</b> spiritual than normal ones. Awakening inverts the relationship between the spiritual and the mundane. When I’m drunk, I’m loose, animated, concepts move around easily. But as nice as that is, it’s not the peak. It’s not even better than normal. It’s just <i>different</i>. Concepts move around, but there’s no building to a new understanding.</p><p>That kind of metamorphosis requires space to be created that is truly outside of the norm. Altered state of consciousness doesn’t really provide that.</p>
