---
layout: post
title: Was Jesus Christ really resurrected?
date: 2019-05-20
---

<p>The unanswered question of history that Jesus’ resurrection answers is “how in the holy heck did Christianity take over the Roman Empire? This question simply doesn’t have a satisfactory answer. The available history states pretty conclusively that early Christians were practically <b>begging</b> for martyrdom. They really and truly believed that they were going to heaven to be with Jesus and that giving up their lives for the Christian cause was <i>exactly</i> what needed to be done.</p><p>The New Testament shows the rest of the plan. The blueprint for how Christianity managed to spread is documented right there in the letters and Acts of the Apostles.</p><p>If something magical and wondrous and crazy <b>didn’t</b> happen, then you need to come up with an alternative explanation for just what lit a fire under the butts of all these Jews.</p><p>You can try to handwave it away as the work of zealots. But Jewishness had no shortage of wannabe prophets. Why did so many people listen to the message of Jesus over the others?</p><p>I’m a very spiritual person, and I’d always assumed that Jesus’ resurrection was played out largely through visions. I’ve had visions, I can understand them, how they work and what role they play. My experience with visions is <b>absolutely nothing like</b> the accounts given in the NT. Shared visions of this magnitude are completely unheard of.</p><p>That the events of the New Testament happened <i>as they were written</i> is the most <i>plausible</i> explanation we have to explain the rise of Christianity. Any other explanation raises more questions than it answers.</p><p>At some point you have to decide where the line between truth and fiction lay. You can’t draw it at the historical existence of Jesus. Historians near-universally agree that Jesus actually lived. You can’t draw it at the notion that the NT was simply made up after the fact. This isn’t credible either. The NT was written by real people with a real connection to the events described, and many many many eyes were on them. We have enough archaeological evidence to state that pretty conclusively.</p><p>If they were just stories, then why were people so incredibly eager to give up their lives for them? Something magical happened. It’s just a question of what.</p><p><i>Disrespectful or mocking comments will be deleted.</i></p>
