---
layout: post
title: Do you believe every argument should be logical?
date: 2019-03-06
---

<p>No, arguments should be rational, but not necessarily logical.</p><p>Rational differs from logical in the amount of rigor that is applied to the ideas. The ideas that we believe in stem from Ancient Greek developments in science and philosophy. Despite our beliefs, the ideas we use in practice are in reality the same as have been used by humans all throughout history.</p><p>There’s a reason it took tens of thousands of years to develop philosophy, it’s because the human mind just isn’t built to think rigorously. It’s not going to just because we believe that logical thinking is super cool.</p><p>We hope to think rigorously, but invariably wind up mired in personal, impossible-to-make-rigorous non-sequiturs. My advice is to not fight this state of affairs, it’s as old as humanity. Theology built the pyramids. It also eventually built philosophy, and philosophy built the modern world. But philosophy is hard.</p><p>Rational argument is the middle ground. Logical demands that anybody can follow the thread. Rational only demands that you can understand the arguer.</p><p>Rational argument does not need to be rigorous. Let me give an example to illustrate the difference. If you want to explore a political question, one that seeks to tell other people how they should act, you can make essentially two different types of arguments. You can make an argument from your personal experience. High taxes are bad because they destroyed your uncle’s business.</p><p>Or you can make an argument from some kind of ‘absolute’ principle. High taxes makes it so the elites can’t keep getting one over on the poor.</p><p>People with a belief in rigor and positivism and logic will only accept arguments made from rigor. Your story about your uncle’s business will be relegated to irrelevance because statistics as a science isn’t interested in a sample size of one.</p><p>If these people were truly interested in rigor they would realize that even one anecdote can be learned from. Maybe your uncle’s story has some interesting tie-ins to local laws and economic conditions. But someone with a weird fixation on logic will forever dismiss such value.</p><p>No, rational arguments are enough. It is not necessary for them to achieve logicality.</p>
