---
layout: post
title: What do you think about you and your mind? Are they same?
date: 2019-03-16
---

<p>In one way they are the same. In another, more important way, they are very different.</p><p>The locus for experience is the cognitive brain. As far as I’ve been able to determine through meditation, conscious experience outside of the brain is nothing more than pure illusion. Conscious awareness is a television set that’s making up its own shows, 24/7.</p><p>Think about a television set. Such sophisticated gadgetry! All powered by an electrical cord, and fed by some kind of network cable delivering ones and zeroes on a wire. The vast amount of information you can read about that governs everything at every level is insane. You can read the technical specifications of the plastic molds, the electrical specifications of the protocol used to communicate between your cable box and the television.</p><p>All of this intricacy drives to a singular purpose, creating an illusion. Layers upon layers of detail, were any of them to break down, say the TV got unplugged or a capacitor desoldered off of the board, then the whole illusion breaks down.</p><p>This is mind. A complex, sophisticated gadget created through a design process that began hundreds of millions of years ago, that all drives towards a singular purpose, creating the illusion of self. Am <b>I</b> this illusion?</p><p>Of course not! Illusions are expensive and unwieldy and just a heck of a lot of work to maintain! You don’t just do it for no reason at all!</p><p>There is <b>meaning</b> behind every illusion you look at. That’s what you and I are. Caretakers of our own illusions. Do you want your illusion to be interesting and amazing? Or ugly and stupid? Whatever it is you want the television show of your mind to look like, you can use that exact same mind in order to create it!</p><p>Mind is the illusion that creates itself. But it can only gain the ability to create itself if it first fixes everything keeping it from doing so. You are the television that can plug itself in.</p>
