---
layout: post
title: Are there any awakened people who decide to enjoy the full spectrum of human experience, e.g., sex, wealth, etc?
date: 2019-05-07
---

<p>Sure. I’m awakened. The account I have written about my awakening is here: <a href="https://spiritual-musings.quora.com/How-I-got-into-spirituality">How I got into spirituality by Vincent Guidry on Spiritual Musings</a></p><p>Awakening means that you’ve received evidence, personally incontrovertible evidence, that a spiritual reality exists. Personally-incontrovertible means that <b>you</b> can’t ignore the evidence. Because, well, it happened to you. Just because it happened to you and not others doesn’t mean it’s totally bullshit.</p><p>I personally am happy accepting anyone else’s narrative and working it into my worldview, because I have had my own personally-incontrovertible awakening. I know it’s possible to have happened to me, so I’m happy to listen to it having happened to others.</p><p>Awakening by itself doesn’t make it so you can’t experience life as a human. What you’re thinking of isn’t really awakening. What you’re thinking of is really <i>enlightenment</i>. Awakening doesn’t by itself affect your existence as a human.</p><p>Imagine some random idiot suddenly being able to see dead people. Does this make them less human? Of course not. It just gives them augmented perception. Anyone can find augmented perception, doesn’t make them less human. They still want to have sex with hot chicks, they still want material wealth. The awakening that they can see dead people doesn’t affect any of that.</p><p>And so my own awakening didn’t change what I wanted out of life. It’s just that what I wanted wasn’t really much anyway.</p><p>Because I was enlightened before I became awakened. Enlightenment does indeed change what you want out of life. It means you enjoy less of things that are derived from ego.</p><p>This is because enlightenment is a product of <i>surrender.</i> Surrender changes who you are and what you want. Awakening does not do this. But you can only ignore what the body and mind wants to the extent that you are able to surrender.</p><p>If you become awakened, then what you want out of life is going to be pretty much the same as what you wanted before you became awakened. If you become enlightened, then what you want out of life will be totally different than what you wanted before.</p><p>Sex and wealth are interesting to pretty much anyone. Even enlightened people can become interested in them. But enlightened people are not interested in sex and wealth for the same reasons. Awakened people are interested in them for the same reasons that unawakened people are.</p>
