---
layout: post
title: If you criticise religion and belief enough can you eventually break through and start believing in these things so that your family and friends may start listening to you and considering your existence?
date: 2019-01-27
---

<p>In my teenage years. I was angry at the same things all American teenagers are angry at, that the world just wasn’t what I wanted it to be. In so doing I figured everything I’d been told was a lie, especially religion. Religion is an extremely easy target for teenage angst.</p><p>At the time, the Internet was just starting to take off, this was the late 90s. I loved computers and used the money I made from the job I’d had to build my own computer, back in those days it still made sense to do that. These days I just buy them. Once I got it hooked up to the Internet I spent like 70% of my time there, mostly just talking to people.</p><p>I was pretty intrigued to find out that most of the people I found on the Internet were a lot like me. Angry, obsessed with knowledge and the capacity to know. I liked the obsession with knowledge, but I did not like the anger. I remember very clearly getting into tons of arguments on the Internet for no other real reason than to have something to do, something to think about, something to get amped up about.</p><p>I knew something weird was going on, I just couldn’t figure out what. Over the next fifteen years I watched the Internet slowly civilize. Debates became less caustic. People became more friendly. But back then it was all about respect. And atheism was all about respect.</p><p>Like I said, God is an easy target for your anger.</p><p>I hated everything. I hated school. I hated the kids there. I didn’t realize it was just teenage emotions running rampant in my brain. I joined the military because I just couldn’t sit still and finish college. I had made this silly plan for my life that had me becoming an officer even though I enlisted. Angry kids simply can’t make good decisions and I wouldn’t listen to anyone who I felt was trying to make them for me.</p><p>In the military I started to take a good hard look at myself and what I was becoming. I had a lot of time to myself and not a whole lot to do. At first my main haunt was bookstores, I’d read anything that looked interesting. I hated the military and did anything I could to get away from it.</p><p>One of those things I did to get away from it was to join a pagan spiritual group. Something about the Mormon culture of Utah, where I was stationed, made for a very thriving pagan community. I did traditional Indonesian martial arts, and found friends outside the military there. All my arguments online had mollified my hatred towards spirituality somewhat.</p><p>In the spiritual group I found religion, though I didn’t think that way at the time. I joined a Wiccan coven. I would meet weekly with the High Priest and he would teach me all kinds of things, firstly how to meditate.</p><p>Let me get this straight, I didn’t join a religion because I believed in it. I joined because it looked like a fun thing to do. When I left the coven a year later, I still didn’t believe in it. My mind could not accept belief even though I was participating in ritual and raising energy.</p><p>My High Priest, when I asked him if I could become a dedicant, asked me what my position on gods and goddesses was. I told him, I think they’re just things people believe in but aren’t real. He said, they’re real, they’re as real as this table and this room. I looked at him and didn’t say anything. We agreed that we could work on it. If I had fought him on that he would have turned me away.</p><p>It would be another five or so years before I finally started believing. The people were fun, the women beautiful, I was having the time of my life, even if I felt like a total outsider. But the more I got to know people the more I realized that it wasn’t just me having problems with faith. Nobody I met seemed to really, really, 100% believe in the things they were saying and doing. Like me, it looked like they were just pretending because it was fun.</p><p>This wore on me. I couldn’t let it go. I meditated more. I couldn’t find a career. I couldn’t keep a job. I spent 10 years living with my father after I left the military. I didn’t move out until I was 30. I couldn’t because I was looking for meaning in my life. I had no idea what I was doing it all for.</p><p>I did all kinds of things. I used whatever money I made from whatever job I had at the time to fuel my search for meaning. I took dance classes, did more martial arts, took improv classes. I played guitar. I travelled. All while living with my father.</p><p>I kept coming back to the spiritual for some reason. Nothing felt nicer than meditating. When I was living in Utah I had worked out how to clear my mind, and then with enough meditation figured out how to keep it clear. Someone I met online got me interested again in visualization meditation. I discovered Dr. David R. Hawkins, the only spiritual guru whose writings I could sink my teeth into.</p><p>One of his books was called “Discovery of the Presence of God.” In reading this he made a very clear argument for the existence of God. I thought really carefully about this and realized he was right. Nothing I had done in my life made any sense unless God was there present throughout it all. In that moment my atheism, which I’d long since stopped believing in, disappeared, never to return. And my life from there became a long, slow, embrace of God into my life.</p><p>That was 7 years ago. It would be another 2 years before I could finally start having an adult life. God does not work quickly, and I didn’t want Him to. Every step has been slow and deliberate.</p><p>What was it that allowed me to find God, while so many never do? I was an angry atheist just like everyone else. But what I did, that most atheists never do, is to actually ask questions and look for answers, rather than just believe I had them all. Everything else was just basically luck from a materialist standpoint, though obviously now I believe I was following God’s plan all along.</p><p>So yeah, to answer your question, you can question your way to God. It’s a long, hard road that took me over ten years to walk. Honestly you’ll be happier just accepting God’s love into your life right now. I know I would have been, now that I know just how utterly silly materialism really is.</p><p>And yeah, you’re right. When you find God, your family and friends will start listening to you and considering your existence. Religion is how humanity cooperates. If you refuse it, then you’re basically saying you don’t need other people. They might respect your decision but respecting your decision has the unavoidable consequence of alienating you from them. Because you don’t have to take a militant stand against religion. You don’t have to threaten people’s deeply-held beliefs. You don’t have to get angry about your lack of belief.</p><p>You’re angry because you’re selfish. You don’t have to believe, you can just accept that there’s this thing in life called religion that people believe in but you aren’t really sure why. That wouldn’t be alienating, that would be human. But you insist you know. Or worse, you play games, acting like you think you know while saying it’s just a lack of belief.</p><p>Finding God was the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do in my life. But it was worth every second.</p>
