---
layout: post
title: How does one better understand the concept of emptiness in Buddhism?
date: 2019-04-05
---

<p>These days my favorite analogy to describe illusion is that of a television set. When you turn off your TV, do you suddenly wonder where all the people went? Of course not. Maybe if it were your first time ever seeing a TV, you’d make the mistake of believing the characters you were seeing were real.</p><p>This is, effectively, how Buddhists see reality. As a set of illusions created by the master creator and projector of illusion, a machine purpose-built for it, the mind.</p><p>What you think of as yourself, is an illusion. What you think your idea of Buddhism is, an illusion. Anything you’ve ever accomplished, an illusion. Turn the television set off, and it all disappears, you don’t even wonder where it went because it never was real in the first place.</p><p>Buddhist emptiness is the peace acquired from not just understanding this idea, but by meditating on it enough that the mind no longer identifies as being in the illusion. It’s where the mind goes after you switch off the TV.</p><p>It’s a progressive peace that takes a long time to acquire, because, unlike your TV, the illusion of reality is multi-layered, and the mind is really really good at its job. All major Buddhist schools describe multiple layers of enlightenment, and Buddhist monks spend many decades to make seemingly small steps.</p><p>Buddhism is misrepresented in the West as being atheistic. The Buddha had no interest in describing reality outside of the self, only in alerting us to the reality of the illusion <i>inside</i>. The Buddha’s teachings were methods, not dogmas. They were designed to be followed by anyone, anywhere. You don’t have to follow Buddhism as a religion, though people have turned it into one over the ages. Indians did this by adding Hindu religious concepts, Chinese people did this by adding Chinese religious concepts.</p>
