---
layout: post
title: Does God provide enough evidence for people to believe in him? If so, why is faith needed?
date: 2019-02-23
---

<p>Sure. There are many, many, many roads to belief in God. The question is, will you seek one of them out?</p><p>You seem to be laboring under the strange impression that because God is omnipresent, that it would be easy to apprehend Him. But in fact it’s that very omnipresence that makes it so difficult. You’re swimming in a sea of God, you’re just conditioned to think of it as other stuff.</p><p>As for faith, think carefully about what that is. You have your simple understanding of it, but that simple understanding is anything but. To understand how, consider the difference between faith and belief. Faith is a knowing, belief is a hope. Faith means that things can all go to crap, but you know they’ll turn out fine in the end.</p><p>It’s an idea that could have only come from Abrahamic scripture. People’s religions weren’t always what we think of them as. Most of the time, individual experience and understanding came first, social tradition second, and finally relationship with the divine third.</p><p>Christianity demanded that people put God first, their society second, and their individual experience third. Nobody thought this way before the Christians. It’s <i>still</i> a very weird way to be religious, or at least it would be if Christianity wasn’t already the biggest religion in the world by a large margin.</p><p>That’s the history and meaning behind faith. The divine is ever-present, but our ideas and relationship with it change. God can be an intensely personal deity, a divine person, or He can be an impersonal force, an essence, a kind of field. Anybody can believe and conceptualize the divine any way they want, and God humors them with ideas and revelations and insights.</p><p>It doesn’t matter much to God how you think about Him. But it matters to you. The reason the state of God’s accessibility is the way it is is because humans are discovering a new way to find and conceptualize God, the <i>rational</i>. Many people believe God cannot be rational, so they conjure up a philosophical platform on which they think they can discard God, atheism.</p><p>As well try to empty the oceans. God can be rational just like He can be anything else we want Him to be. It’s just a fun game God likes to play with us.</p>
