---
layout: post
title: If a non-Jew (woman) can&#39;t really get to know Kabbalah, what path should she follow if she believes it? Is it to convert to Judaism? Or maybe follow another Abrahamic religion?
date: 2019-05-02
---

<p>From one perspective, I’m inclined to agree that a non-Jew can never <i>truly</i> understand Kabbalah. Judaism itself is carrying on a religion that dates back 4000+ years. That’s a really, really long time. If you want to do it right, you need <b>decades</b> of study to catch up if you didn’t have a <i>perfect</i> Jewish upbringing. Sure you <i>could</i> convert but you’ll never really feel like you <i>belong</i>.</p><p>From another perspective, my advice is to tell you to forget all about the above paragraph and the truths behind it, because to be perfectly honest, <b>there’s more than one truth in the world.</b> Literally every single gnostic and occult and esoteric Christian tradition draws upon the Kabbalah. And these people found interesting and compelling points of view.</p><p>I love Judaism. I love that it exists. I love that God chose a tiny nondescript nation thousands of years ago and decided to stay with these people through thick and through thin. That love does not move me to <i>identify</i> as Jewish, even though I adore their religion and way of looking at things and wish to replicate the closeness these people feel with God.</p><p>I’m not moved to <i>become</i> Jewish because Jewishness is of historical necessity driven by <i>geography</i>. And geography is the single most limiting thing in the world. I pick and choose my friends on the basis of whether we can find ourselves in the same place at the same time, if we can’t do that, then we can’t be friends. I pick my extracurricular activities by the facts of whether I can both do it <i>conveniently</i> and whether I can find others who are capable and willing to do it with me.</p><p>Jews chose to be limited by geography, and placed hard hard barriers in the way of becoming a member of their club. So I cannot be Jewish.</p><p>Trying to fight against those forces was not worth it for me.</p><p>Christianity is also a wonderful thing to believe. But you believe in Kabbalah. And Christians could never integrate Kabbalah into their worldview, leaving it to the likes of Gnostics.</p><p>The reality is that Kabbalah is not really compatible with the Christian worldview and way of life. Despite that, I have a great deal of respect for Kabbalah and what it’s trying to do. Esotericism is useful, and Kabbalah laid the groundwork for all kinds of esoteric wisdom and practice. I wrote this answer to help people understand just what Kabbalah and esoteric practice is: <a href="/What-are-the-similarities-and-differences-between-classic-Gnosticism-and-Jewish-Kabbalah">What are the similarities and differences between classic Gnosticism and Jewish Kabbalah?</a></p><p>My suggestion to you is to study Christian esoteric traditions, not with an eye towards converting to Christianity, because honestly Gnosticism is not Christianity and you’re going to find just as much friction trying to be Christian as you would trying to be Jewish.</p><p>Rather you should be picking and choosing elements that resonate with you. If a particular tradition speaks to you, then study it more. I honestly feel like anyone who wants to deviate from standard Western religious spiritual forms really <b>should</b> make their own. God doesn’t need your strict adherence to a particular religion. You can build a relationship with Him any way you want.</p>
