---
layout: post
title: Is there a cult forming in the enlightenment section?
date: 2019-03-16
---

<p>The topics of spiritual enlightenment and awakening encourage people to be open and honest with and about themselves. This vulnerability makes you open to influence. Both from those interested in helping you, and also those interested in harming you. It’s really hard to guard yourself against negative influences when you’re deliberately making yourself vulnerable.</p><p>And there are many out there who are not only going to be unhelpful to you in your goal of healing and awakening, but who are actively malicious. They take pleasure in the harm they cause others. Christianity calls them “evil spirits,” and when they take root in someone, they call these people “demonically possessed.” It’s not so much that the possessed person is actively being controlled by demons, but rather that the person comes to love the demonic influence and the selfish joys that it provides.</p><p>Evil seeks out that which it loves, and because it can’t survive out in the open, it hides and searches out places where it can grow and learn and collect resources. When it has grown enough, evil gets greedy and shows its face. It wants nothing less than power, control, dominion. To not have to hide anymore, to demand worship as if it were itself God.</p><p>The root of evil lies in each of us, in our selfish instincts. Where we imagine ourselves to be good, evil can take hold. When you rush out to confront evil with force, that only causes people who were on the fence to choose their own selfish desires. But we are not good people, we are selfish, limited, weak. Even the strongest amongst us can be led astray by their own ignorance. And the evil among us will be all too happy to sow more and more chaos caused by indistinct, unfocused action by the naive desire to be good, to do good.</p><p>I speak about evil in this particular segment of the Quora community, focused on enlightenment and awakening, because I want to draw attention to the fact that Buddhism, as practiced by Westerners, is an incomplete pathway to true salvation. And this is one of the reasons why. By focusing on emptiness, Buddhism fails to offer real guidance on morals.</p><p>Please take notice that I am not saying that Buddhism does not have moral teachings. It does, a lot of them actually. The problem isn’t with Eastern Buddhism, but with the Buddhism practiced by the West, which is sanitized of all it’s mystical elements. The best book on Buddhist dharma I’ve ever read, <i>Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha,</i> merely states that of the three pillars of Buddhist technique, morality is the only one that can’t be mastered, and then proceeds to ignore the topic other than to call attention to all the narcissism and unexamined ego in the space.</p><p>And you can’t take morality out of the picture. Otherwise you will wind up in a hall of mirrors, wandering around in circles, getting tripped up by narcissists because you’ll have thrown away the only reliable guide to what is helpful and what is harmful.</p><p>So I will offer the community a very simple guide to finding out who is acting in your best intentions and who is malicious. And what to do when you find a malicious person in your midst.</p><p>Malice is when someone takes <i>pleasure</i> in causing <i>harm</i>. If you are interacting with someone, and you show vulnerability to that person, and that person takes the opportunity to hurt you more, then you need to confront them. Do they enjoy hurting you? Is this something they like doing?</p><p>Simply ask them. If they say no, <i>but keep doing it</i>, then they are toxic. If they say yes, then they’re <i>evil</i>. Either way, cut them out of your life completely, and warn all of the friends you care about that this person is a bad egg who should not be trusted. Explain to them what malice is. It’s very simple, it’s when someone likes to do bad things to others.</p><p>Spread the word through the community. Only awareness, truth, and love, can combat evil. Spread awareness by alerting people to the fact that there are malicious people in the world and how to recognize them. Spread truth by sharing your experiences you’ve had with malicious people. And spread love by being helpful and willing to spend the time needed to bring someone to awareness and truth.</p><p>That was the message Jesus brought to the world. It still works today, 2000 years later.</p>
