---
layout: post
title: Are demons real and can they hurt you?
date: 2019-05-30
---

<p>Demons are real but they can’t really do anything to you.</p><p>The thing about talking about the spiritual realm is that every spiritual concept has real-world analogues that don’t just exist there. If I told you I mollified my inner demons with alcohol, you’re not going to suddenly change the subject and say demons aren’t real. My inner demons are real, and they really do love alcohol.</p><p>Any spiritual concept is real to the extent that you believe in it. What makes them real is <i>your own mind</i>.</p><p>In my opinion, one of the things that makes English great is the fact that the concept of <i>actuality</i> doesn’t have an easy, roll-off-the-tongue set of terms like <i>reality</i> does. This makes the sort of metaphoric jiu-jitsu I performed earlier easy and fun. You have to introduce the concept of actuality if you want to actually discuss that. Otherwise anybody can liken anything to anything else using metaphor and so anything can be real. Personally, I think that’s an amazing thing and you should too.</p><p>So demons are real, but are they <i>actual?</i> When I say my demons are real, what does this mean? When you strip away the metaphor and semantics, nailing down the topic of discussion to strictly that which the person with the question means it as, is there anything left behind the concept? Well, think for a few minutes about what that means. I can dive into the cultural history behind the concept, how every single human society has their cultural conception of what demons are, malignant non-physical entities.</p><p>Does anyone know? Can anyone know? Do I know the underlying actuality behind my inner demons? Of course not. They could very well be malignant non-physical entities living inside of me. My thoughts are non-physical entities. Numbers are non-physical entities. You can’t draw the line at whether the non-physical can exist or not. You can’t draw the line at whether the non-physical can have agency or not. Thoughts are non-physical, and they do things, influencing the physical.</p><p>There’s room for belief here. If you want to personify your fears, worries, desires, <b>there’s nobody that can stop you, </b>not with any kind of silly logic. As somebody who actually believes in the spiritual realm, I have to say that in most cases, your first intuition, the one you get before your ‘sane’ mind cuts it down saying it’s silly, is usually <i>more</i> accurate than anything that mind comes up with later as an explanation.</p><p>So what’s my take on the question of demons? Yes, they’re real, in every sense. They were born human, and after they died, their inner nature carried them on a path towards pure selfish goal-seeking. They’re all around us, feeding us negative energy, on purpose and just by their very auras. A thousand years ago, human will was weak enough such that demons could totally possess a person and force him or her to do their bidding. A number of things happened to the spiritual realm after the events described in the New Testament, human will got stronger, and demons lost the ability to directly influence people. They’re still kicking around, but their ‘power base’ so to speak has been cut out from under them.</p><p>The logic isn’t <i>that</i> crazy when you get right down to it. If you believe in life after death, and you believe in good and evil, and you believe in God, demons are a natural consequence, so natural that <i>every human society</i> has a conception of them.</p>
