---
layout: post
title: Did God create men or did men create God?
date: 2019-01-06
---

<p>Creation is a weird concept. To illustrate just how weird it is, let’s contrast it with a similar word, arising. What’s the difference between creation and arising? Quite simply, creation means agency was involved in giving something form, while when something arises, it finds a form all by itself.</p><p>Were mathematics created or did they just arise all by themselves? That’s a hard question to answer. It’s tempting to think that they arose, basic arithmetic equations like one plus one equalling two could have only ever been one way. But new ways of doing math are created all the time by mathematicians, so in a very real sense, maths are created.</p><p>We have a word to describe the act of finding something that was already there, so we don’t have to contemplate the conundrum of how the form came to be. Discovery. The form was already present, the agent merely found it. Mathematicians don’t create maths so much as they discover them.</p><p>But using the word discovery is a bit of a cop-out, we still haven’t answered the question of where the form came from.</p><p>The Bible says that God created man in his own image. We are like God, we have His form. But where did that form come from? Science has an answer to part of that question. Humanity <b>evolved</b>. The people that came up with the stories that later became the Bible were not aware of the concept, it took us until the 19th century to formalize it.</p><p>It’s highly arguable that were they aware of it, they would have written the Bible so as to accommodate it. It wouldn’t be the first time that happened. Genesis had two main sources, we call them the Yahwist and the Priestly sources. The older Yahwist connects the first man to the soil, while the later Priestly source connects him to the breath. This <i>imagery</i> was always allegorical, intended to bypass the logical part of the mind. Nobody really know how the Earth was created.</p><p>Evolution is a kind of arising, form happening without direct agency. In a fertile environment, many things are tried over and over and over again until something new happens that changes the whole environment.</p><p>The question at hand here, is how much like arithmetic are we? If, like one plus one, humanity could have only arisen one way, that would mean that we are similarly eternal. And the more we learn about the evolution of life, the more it looks that way.</p><p>Oh I suppose there could have been trivial differences, like our tails bones might look different, but the idea that an all-powerful interested entity created the universe with the express intent of putting us in it isn’t the craziest idea in the world the more we study that world.</p><p>And that’s just half of the story. The other half of our existence is non-physical. The world of the mind, of thoughts and patterns and theories. A pattern is determined by non-physical, somewhat mathematical <i>essence</i>. God is obviously non-physical, we can’t point to Him, we can only try to describe His features through stories and parables. One of which is the story of how He created us.</p><p>Gods weren’t always non-physical. Many societies imbued divinity into physical artifacts. The artifacts were displayed publicly as a symbol of the strength of the society. Conquering armies, as a matter of routine, destroyed these artifacts to break the spirit of the conquered.</p><p>Our ability to think abstractly didn’t just happen, it slowly evolved just as we did. But it retains the same ‘it could have only ever been one way’ aspect as everything else that evolved in order to take advantage of a particular aspect of the environment.</p><p>Think about how determinism affects the mind. Your mind thinks thoughts of hunger when your belly is empty. If you read a sad story, it makes you sad. Thoughts are <i>triggered</i> in the mind, your experience is sequential, you have one conscious experience after another.</p><p>How did you begin, how did your conscious awareness kick off? What’s your creation story? It’s a mystery, nobody knows how personalities develop in infancy. We know that much of it happens <i>in utero</i>. But why we don’t all have the same kind of personality is a mystery.</p><p>Humans are good at allegory and making symbols, and that essential mystery for how things arise already has a name. God.</p>
