---
layout: post
title: Why is that people can be attracted to someone, but then once they get the attention they want, their attraction for the person disappears?
date: 2019-04-11
---

<p>People can’t really see themselves. They can only see themselves through other people. But they can’t really see themselves through the other either. It’s a sort of subconscious, hidden kind of sight. You don’t really see the other person at all at the time you’re attracted to them. You haven’t fallen in love with them.</p><p>No, instead you have constructed an <i>image</i> of that person in your mind, and <i>that’s</i> what you fell in love with. The image is a representation of everything you think you lack in life. This person is brilliant, they are beautiful, they must be super patient and nice too. It’s easiest to see this pedestal-elevating in young men, but everyone does it.</p><p>Even grown, mature, healthy people do this, as it’s impossible to fully see a person just by looking at them. Mature people are however aware of this and so they can play with the dynamic in a fun way rather than let it mess them up.</p><p>Basically speaking, you don’t know the person, you can’t see their full person, so your mind makes things up about them so that you can be attracted to them. Generally what causes us to become attracted to a person in the first place is deeply rooted in childhood history. These events set a romantic pattern for us to live out over and over in our lives. It’s not really worth trying to change these patterns once set. It’s too hard and just makes sex and attraction and romance not as fun.</p><p>But when you’re unaware of these dynamics, then a particular pattern will play out in your life over and over again until you can recognize it and stop doing it to yourself. You’ll get attracted to the image you’ve constructed of that person, then start dating them, then suddenly get <i>disillusioned</i> of the image you made of them, break up with them, and then find another person to make an image of.</p><p>You’ll screw up your first great relationship over stupid things you’re doing and then see every future relationship in terms of this first idealized one. Just like you didn’t have a real picture of the other person, you won’t have had a real picture of the relationship you had with them, rather a ‘through rose-colored lens’ version.</p><p>The way out is not to not put people up on a pedestal or to not have an image of them. That’s impossible. The way out is to realize that these images are images and to build a real relationship with the real person rather than an idealized one with the idealized person. Work to dispel your illusions, otherwise you’ll be hopelessly mired in them.</p>
