---
layout: post
title: A few months back I started on a journey of spiritual awakening and awareness. I have been working on meditation, mindfulness, etc. Is enlightenment something that will only happen after I&#39;m older (I&#39;m 38) or will I attain it when I have earned it?
date: 2019-01-22
---

<p>This is a question without a general answer, only an individual one. All I can try to do is to define enlightenment in a way that gives you a clear picture of what’s going on so that you can maybe use it as a general guide.</p><p>If you have the right principles to guide you, and you’re lucky enough to pursue it in the right way, then nonduality can be yours. There is plenty of time in one lifetime. But there are so many obstacles along the way that, practically speaking, it’s easier to say that most people who look to become enlightened won’t ever actually get there.</p><p>I say this not to discourage you, but to try to give you a healthy perspective and appreciation for what enlightenment is.</p><p>So let’s get started. There are two aspects to spiritual growth. There’s a person’s level of <i>surrender</i>, and a person’s level of <i>responsiveness</i>. Together we can call these <i>consciousness</i>.</p><p>I studied the work of a man by the name of Dr. David R. Hawkins, and he only spoke of levels of consciousness. He placed consciousness on a scale with 1000 being the maximum level of consciousness accessible by a human being. After extensive study and going on my own mystic journey, I came to the two-part model of spiritual consciousness.</p><p>You can read more here: <a href="/Assuming-souls-exist-do-they-also-have-varying-degrees-of-intelligence-like-that-of-physical-brains-Not-talking-about-wisdom-or-accumulated-knowledge-but-more-on-mental-capacity-or-brainpower/answer/Vincent-Guidry-1">Vincent Guidry's answer to Assuming souls exist, do they also have varying degrees of intelligence, like that of physical brains? Not talking about wisdom or accumulated knowledge, but more on mental capacity or "brainpower".</a></p><p>Surrender is the ultimate driver of nonduality. It matters not what a person’s level of responsiveness is if they can find the right amount of surrender. The necessary item of surrender for nonduality is nothing less than all of their self. Intellectual understanding of the non-existence of self is mere religious dogma, it does not actually bring any benefits to the being other than possible pride. One must surrender not just intellectually, but emotionally as well.</p><p>Emotional surrender can come from many sources, but the one that is directly accessible as a method that can be reliably applied by anyone is <i>mysticism</i>. The Eastern and Western parts of the world each have spiritual traditions that are similar in many, many, ways, but are also different in a similar number of ways. For best results, spiritual methods from both traditions should be used. In my answers, I often try to give both the Christian and Buddhist perspectives and to try to unify the both of them.</p><p>Christianity has you surrender to God, while Buddhism wants you to surrender yourself. Both of these perspectives offer amazing advantages and crippling limitations. The ultimate expression of Christian mysticism is the leap of faith, and constantly making leaps of faith will have the effect of growing your ego. The ultimate expression of Buddhist mysticism is concentration meditation, which dissociates you from yourself and can make it hard to escape the ultimately false dogma that the self is something that is inherently wrong, in and of itself.</p><p>A person’s level of responsiveness ultimately determines how much a person has qualities like intelligence and wisdom. You increase your level of responsiveness by doing what you love as much and as hard as you can.</p><p>What makes this difficult is the fact that doing things in this world is very hard. Jesus told the rich young man to sell his possessions and follow him, lamenting after being refused that it’s easier for a camel to pass through the head of a needle than for a rich man to find God. The rich man needed to surrender his possessions, but in order to recognize the need and purpose behind that action, a high level of responsiveness, of intelligence / wisdom, would have been needed to ascertain that. Not even the Son of Man Himself could get the rich man to see this, and you see dynamic of refusal of the wisdom of Jesus / God all over the New Testament.</p><p>Both responsiveness and surrender make things easy, but they make different things easy. The Buddha did not need to have Jesus or anybody tell him he needed to renounce the world in order to find spiritual enlightenment. He figured that out all by himself.</p><p>This points to an extremely high level of responsiveness, the Buddha had the intelligence / wisdom to first determine that he needed to get outside the palace to open his mind, and then once he saw the world’s suffering, his wisdom allowed him to come to the conclusion that it really wasn’t their fault, and that there was beauty in the suffering.</p><p>Once he saw the beauty, he decided he would become like them, so that he could find that beauty too, eventually finding enlightenment. The Buddha did not invent enlightenment, he just found a path to it was easy enough for more people to find it.</p><p>Take a second to appreciate just how rare this is. Someone choosing spiritual truth over commonly-held social logic. It really doesn’t happen all that often. But that’s what it takes in order to become enlightened. Because you, your station in life, your possessions and understandings, your very being, all belong to God. None of it is yours. Realize this, at a deep, personal level, such that you would happily throw your life away should God require it of you, is to be ‘lightened’ of the burdens of holding tightly on to self.</p><p>God would not demand such a thing from you unless it was necessary, but He can’t show that to you unless you take the leap of faith needed for him to show it to you. And you can’t apprehend the spiritual truths of the world if you don’t meditate / pray for insight.</p><p>If you can see, experience, understand, and most importantly, <b>embody</b> these truths, then you can be enlightened.</p>
