---
layout: post
title: How would you convince me of the existence of God knowing that I&#39;m an atheist?
date: 2019-03-09
---

<p>Whether a person believes in God or not is itself a function of God’s grace. So it’s not something anybody can expect to just do. A person has to first be <i>open</i>, and then be <i>ready</i>, for a spiritual awakening, as only a spiritual awakening has the ability to convince an atheist of the reality of God. Our conversation can affect the ‘open’ part, but not not the ‘ready’ part.</p><p>It’s a bit like how an addict often needs to hit ‘rock bottom’ before they can finally take effective action to curb their addictive behaviors. I know alcoholics who managed to take that effective action before hitting rock bottom, so it’s not a hard and fast rule. Conversation by itself cannot make an addict hit rock bottom, and even in one who doesn’t need it, one discussion can only have so much persuasive ability.</p><p>But I can help anyone along on the journey to openness to spiritual awakening. There are a number of barriers I think can be overcome through discussion. The first and most pernicious barrier is the tendency to think spiritual belief is stupid. This is itself a belief, and a rather childish one. I myself held this belief as a teenager. Finding the Internet and discussing with smart theists disabused me of that notion. But it was mostly my interaction with other atheists that managed to show me that in most cases, the atheist viewpoint is built on very little other than assumptions and ego. Helping a person out of this is often a simple matter of having any kind of deep discussion. You can’t have a deep discussion with a stupid person so being a theist willing to go deep with an atheist is often the end of the belief that theism is stupid.</p><p>The next barrier in the way is the belief that philosophy and rigor all by itself disprove spiritual reality. Simply stated like that it’s easy to see that it’s false but this position holds many forms, one of which is philosophical materialism. Another is logical positivism. One way of attacking this viewpoint is to point to the existence of mathematics. Maths is the quintessential non-material thing that cannot supervene on the physical. But this position is borne out of an unfamiliarity and fear of the unknown and the irrational. The irrational need not be feared. The rational is not the comforting bastion that is commonly believed. Evil can be borne out of science and reason just as it can be borne out of religion.</p><p>Another barrier that can be chipped away at but not totally eliminated is the reluctance to meditate. Meditation is the poor man’s prayer, but many many people have learned how to pray by first meditating. It places you in a prime position for a spiritual awakening. And you don’t need to be spiritual or have any kind of belief in order to do it. And the technique can be as simple as just keeping an image of a candle flame in the forefront of mind for a full ten minutes.</p><p>None of these things, by themselves, can cause a person to throw off disbelief. But they can make it so a person isn’t constantly sabotaging themselves in this direction. And they can be very difficult to do all by oneself. Seeing in oneself the ego that causes you to be contemptuous of spirituality is just really really hard to do. But a nice, deep, friendly discussion with one who believes can eliminate that ego in a single go. And just doing that is almost as good as actually believing.</p>
