---
layout: post
title: If there are parallel universes, will God in each of them be &quot;common&quot;?
date: 2019-05-29
---

<p>This question dives into the very idea of what monotheism is. It’s true, the Abrahamic God was originally called Yahweh by the people who believed in him, but slowly over the course of centuries, it became clear to the Jews that Yahweh was something more than ‘just’ a god. Yahweh was the God of gods, the Hebrew word for ‘god’ was <i>el</i>, while the plural was <i>elohim</i>. Chief among the elohim was Yahweh, and it slowly emerged that the other ‘gods’ weren’t really gods at all compared to Yahweh. Yahweh was special, the creator of all.</p><p>What makes Jewish monotheism so special is the idea that the very concept of goodness, all that is good, all that we can point to as good, is <i>derived</i> from the one God. This is what separates Abrahamic theology apart from other monotheistic religions.</p><p>All monotheistic religions think their god is the only one, all of them fit the struggle of good and evil in as a cosmic one, but only the Jewish one conceived the idea that the whole concept of what’s good can <b>only</b> come from God. If humans try to be good by themselves, they’ll simply fail. God is required as a mediator.</p><p>This “God as the source of abstract concepts” nature is the answer to your question. If there are parallel universes, will math be different in each one? Can you have a universe where 1+1=3? Of course not, math is absolute, we discover it rather than make it. Goodness is a similar concept, an abstract, absolute concept, forms of which are only approachable through the divine.</p><p>Another approach to the question is to consider if there’s multiple universes, and a God in each one, then is there a God over all of them? If so, wouldn’t we really be referring to that entity when we speak of God? It’s this sort of ‘pass-through’ of concepts that is at the heart of spiritual conceptualization. A word we give to a spiritual concept remains germane in all kinds of regimes. We use the word <i>soteriology</i> to refer to all promises made by religion, from Christian heaven to Buddhist enlightenment.</p><p>In a monotheistic regime, God is anything ‘in that direction’. Even if it turned out that all the universes had their own unique God, then that would just mean that you could call the whole collective ‘God’, <i>and nothing else changes</i>. Jesus still died for our sins, all the truths believed in are still just as true.</p><p>The key idea here is that <i>no spiritual idea really conflicts with any other</i>. There’s always a reconciliation. That it’s all “really the same thing” underpins monotheism as a whole. It’s all the same, it’s all God. Doesn’t matter what form it’s in, doesn’t matter what form it has to take later. Just the same thing. God.</p>
