---
layout: post
title: If Christianity says that people will be redeemed only if they regret their sins, what about psychopaths? They can’t feel anything because of their nature.
date: 2019-03-22
---

<p>It’s important to note that what precisely creates redemption is widely disagreed upon in the Christian community. The theological idea here is called <i>justification</i>, and has a convenient <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justification_(theology)" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">Wikipedia page</a> where you can go to read all kinds of ideas on who gets to go to Heaven.</p><p>The Catholic Church decreed that faith and works together provide for one’s salvation and entrance into Heaven and the grant of eternal life.</p><p>Martin Luther kicked off the Protestant Reformation by declaring that salvation is obtained through grace alone, by faith alone, in Jesus as determined by scripture alone.</p><p>The one thing that nearly all Christians seem to agree on is that it’s God that determines who is saved. Only God is omniscient and has the capacity to make good judgments in that regard. None of us is in a position to judge anyone, much less someone with a variant brain structure that can be observed, but not even come close to fully understand.</p><p>That said, that doesn’t have to be all there is to the question. We’ve had 2000 years of history to observe how God makes his decisions. So we can come up with a few good guesses as to what’s going on.</p><p>My good pal Emanuel Swedenborg worked out that the divine Creation operates on the principles of truth and love. The rest of the answer will be from the frame of his theology. You’re perfectly free to explore other theologies yourself if you want one that better suits you, the aforementioned Wikipedia Page is a great jumping off point.</p><p>According to him, your spiritual body carries on after your material body loses the ability to support it, and the main thing that defines the spiritual body is that which it loves.</p><p>Your purpose on Earth is to determine that which you love, this is imprinted onto the spiritual body while you are here, each action and decision you make is crucial for its development. Earth is an environment tailor-made for this discovery because it’s a realm that is just far enough away from God to provide for a very strong feeling of free will, and just close enough to where we have a measure of safety against evil influences.</p><p>Evil is defined as the love of self. Goodness as the love of being of service to others. Redemption is the surrender of evil. Nothing about personality disorder affects what you love. You either love being of service to others, or you love serving yourself.</p><p>But it’s not all cut and dried. We can be unaware of our own actions. Actions that serve the self, at the expense of others. A redemptive act would then be when we realize that we are serving the self at the expense of others and then to decide to stop hurting others.</p><p>Being here on Earth, there are many situations in which we can see how people are acting in service of self but we cannot help them to understand. It matters not what actions we take, this person still continues to find justifications and rationalizations.</p><p>The medical community calls this mental illness, but it doesn’t change the inner calculus at all. What a person loves operates at a deep level in the person and provides the real source for the impetus of all their actions. It’s this love that is imprinted onto the spiritual body and provides for their place in the heavenly / spiritual realms in the afterlife.</p><p>Until you are made self-aware, and at the moment personality-disorder self-awareness seems to be achievable by God’s grace alone, then what is being imprinted on the spiritual being is going to be much simpler, the results of your own inner moral calculations. If you struggle to serve others, even though you might be psychopathic, then you’re writing that into your spiritual being. If you consistently decide to serve yourself over others, then you’re writing that onto your spiritual being. A personality disorder cannot make it impossible for you to love, because it’s at the very base level of what you choose to do, moment to moment.</p><p>Anyone interested in more about this should take some time to check out the Swedenborg Foundation’s YouTube channel: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5kBvit8NAsLO3o-8SNGAOA" data-qt-tooltip="youtube.com">offTheLeftEye</a></p>
