---
layout: post
title: Why doesn’t any effort go in to teaching the mind to question existence of self, and explore the meaning of conciousness?
date: 2019-01-27
---

<p>Effort is put into it. But since the only people that care enough to teach it and have the resources available to actually put together some kind of a resource or course or such are religious, you now have the problem of convincing people that your solutions to their problems are worth hearing.</p><p>There is also a branch of philosophy called philosophy of mind that tries to come to a non-theological understanding of it, these are the guys discussing monism vs. dualism and such. It’s pretty dry and honestly I can’t bring myself to care a whole lot about the arguments being made.</p><p>Every single religion deals with these problems, that’s the <b>whole</b> reason they exist, to organize the asking and answering of deep questions. All of their answers are as different as the people who came up with them. The Orthodox Church rejected Trinitarian doctrine for reasons that were both cultural, and political, and a thousand years later they still can’t overcome their differences with the Catholic church and enjoy communion.</p><p>It takes some study and careful thought to realize that all of the answers point to one, core essence, called by people who do this sort of thing for a ‘living’, the mystery. Spirituality is way way easier to convey when it’s distilled to this core essence, and it further allows philosophy to have its say. Epistemology is the junction between the rational world of logic and proof and the irrational one of faith and wonder.</p><p>How do we know things? It’s a much deeper question than you might realize. And it requires people willing to devote their whole lives to answering small aspects of it. The last thing I’ve learned about that’s on the tip of the spear, so to speak, of the epistemological junction is the concept of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supervenience" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org"><i>supervenience</i></a>. Supervenience seems simple and intuitive but it’s a ruse, and philosophers will be debating it for decades I believe before they can find another battleground.</p>
