---
layout: post
title: I believe in the Old Testament, and I also believe in the gods of all religions as co-gods next to the capital G. Is there any name I could call myself?
date: 2019-03-19
---

<p>This state of affairs describes Abrahamic theology, what Islam calls, “people of the book.” The book is the Hebrew Bible, preserved in the Old Testament of the Christian Bible.</p><p>The belief in one god over others is called <i>monolatry</i>. This should be contrasted with <i>henotheism</i>. Henotheists do not believe that the reason they worship a particular god is due to the fact they think their god is better than other gods. Instead it’s more of a cultural thing. A henotheist would look at Star Wars and Marvel movies and see a pantheon of deities. Someone who sees The Hulk as a better deity than Spider-Man is just missing the point.</p><p>Before the ancient Hebrews developed monotheism, they were monolatrous. This video describes the terminology that was in use at the time:</p><div class="ui_qtext_embed thumbnail" data-video-provider="youtube" data-embed="<iframe width=&quot;100%&quot; height=&quot;100%&quot; src=&quot;https://www.youtube.com/embed/U5iyUik97Lg?wmode=opaque&amp;amp;autoplay=1&amp;amp;autohide=1&amp;amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;amp;enablejsapi=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot; allow=&quot;autoplay; encrypted-media&quot; allowfullscreen></iframe>" data-yt-id="U5iyUik97Lg" data-interactive="true" style="background-image: url('https://img.youtube.com/vi/U5iyUik97Lg/0.jpg');"></div><p>Elohim is a word that is not only used as a name, but also as a category to contain all divine beings, which we today would call other gods or angels and whatnot. The ancient Hebrews called their deity by its name, El, or later, Yahweh, and then slowly developed the belief that this named god was somehow special. Eventually they came to believe that Yahweh was the source of all the other elohim.</p><p>Thus began monotheism, the realization that names and descriptions and theologies progressively lose meaning the closer one gets to the divine. Think about it from God’s perspective. God has all these various peoples whose spirits need tending to. So he makes all these other divine beings whose attributes are relatable so they can be worshipped. These divine beings are close to human personalities and display human psychology.</p><p>But one of the peoples on Earth were special, they were able to apprehend the essential nature of all of these divine beings. And so when they were removed from the Earthly trappings of their religion, they found ways to continue their worship and ways of life. Surely this god was special. Was it? Or was it really the same god all along, with us slowly coming to an understanding of Him?</p>
