---
layout: post
title: In Buddhism, how is emptiness different from nothingness?
date: 2019-05-19
---

<p>Any time you’re looking to make a distinction between concepts in Buddhism it’s unbelievably helpful to locate the relevant Wikipedia page on the particular Sanskrit word that Buddhists actually use and how it relates to the rest of the system.</p><p>Here the relevant word is <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C5%9A%C5%ABnyat%C4%81" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org"><i>Śūnyatā</i></a><i>.</i> Wikipedia describes it as “either an <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ontology" data-qt-tooltip="wikipedia.org">ontological</a> feature of reality, a meditative state, or a phenomenological analysis of experience.” This phrasing, as three distinct things, is crucial to be able to understand not just Buddhism, but also the Hindu traditions that Buddhism emerged from.</p><p>So while Westerners see three distinct things, Buddhists see one thing. Sunyata. The ontological feature of reality is the same thing as the meditative experience of it, and is the same thing as the phenomenological analysis. It is only Western thought that wants to distinguish them.</p><p>There is a related word, <i>anatta,</i> which refers to ‘no-self’. These two concepts do not relate to each other in the same way that emptiness and nothingness do, so this isn’t a real answer to the question.</p><p>This is how you understand different Buddhist traditions from each other, and different Hindu religions from each other. The concepts are all the same. <i>Samsara</i> in post-Vedic Hinduism is the same as samsara in Buddhism. What differs is in how <i>important</i> the traditions find the concept. For instance one of the main things distinguishing Buddhism from Hinduism is that a foundational belief of Buddhism is <i>anatta</i>, the lack of a soul. But Hinduism’s foundational belief is that of <i>atman, </i>the soul that gets reborn. Buddhists believe in rebirth, but not in the soul.</p><p>This is why you find a lot of Hindus comfortable talking about Christian concepts like faith and God. To them, it’s all the same stuff ‘up there’. Hinduism as a grouping of extremely varied religions simply wouldn’t work otherwise, and it has to work otherwise governing the immense Indian subcontinent as one nation would be all but impossible.</p><p>So, sunyata. Sunyata translates as a word to ‘nothingness / emptiness / void’. So the question wants to know, is there a distinction between emptiness and nothingness? This is pushing an English semantic difference onto a philosophy derived in Sanskrit terms.</p><p>So there’s no answer from the Buddhist point of view. The two are one in the same. That said, we can still approach the question from the perspective of English semantics. What is the difference between emptiness and nothingness in English? Well, one is a form with no content, and the other is no form and no content.</p><p>To apply this to Buddhism, one can use emptiness to refer to the illusion of self. The self appears to be a singular, unique entity, when in fact if you look inside the self, no such properties exist. Nothingness can refer to the meditative experience of turning this upside down, instead of being a inwardly-focused self, focusing on the emptiness of that self, you can turn it around to instead be a single-pointed awareness observing the reality of nothingness, no form, no content, nowhere you look. You can then dissolve even the awareness into the nothingness and provoke <i>satori</i>.</p>
