---
layout: post
title: As an enlightened person, are you able to see something more than a normal person could see in the people around, like their problems etc., without being told by them?
date: 2019-01-19
---

<p>In general yes. Specifics are hard to glean, but the general gist of situations and people makes itself fairly clear as a matter of perception and recognition.</p><p>This might get long.</p><p>Consider the process of recognition and take a second to realize how magical it is. The moment you see something, realization about what it is dawns in the brain. Sometimes it can take a minute if there’s stuff confusing it, but usually the process of understanding what something is is instant. Mysteries are so interesting to us because precisely because they interfere with the process of recognition. The mind <b>demands</b> an answer, not knowing becomes uncomfortable.</p><p>Mysticism is the process of investigating the great mysteries of the world. Why are we here? What is this all for? Which religion is correct? What gets me up in the morning? These questions don’t have to remain unexplored. One of the best tools we have for exploring them is meditation. Another is science, doing experiments to weigh different propositions against each other.</p><p>Meditation is useful because it’s universally-accessible. The only problem is that it’s hard, and more, it’s hard in a way that means that no matter how far you get with it, it’s still as hard on year 20 as it was on day one. It is not limited like science is, to just investigating stuff we can see and feel and experience.</p><p>When a mystery is investigated, the mind doesn’t just pay attention to the object at hand, it’s also looking to make connections with related things. Meditation is really useful because the mind is free to make connections, it’s in a place that is calm and clear.</p><p>And when answers are found, even though the answer will never fully resolve one of these big grand existential questions, you’ve found something that is broadly applicable to many many situations. That’s also why studying scripture is so great for people that have managed to receive the gift of faith. The things you read there, broadly applicable to everything. Even though I meditate and have ways of asking the universe for answers to questions, I still get a lot out of scripture when I study it.</p><p>The spiritual process culminates in a state that we call enlightenment. It’s commonly held to be the end of the journey, but really it’s just another beginning. Enlightenment is also called <i>nonduality</i>, which gets a little closer at what’s going on in the mind once you find this state. A nondual perspective erases the difference between the seen and the seer. There is no longer two, only one. The whole world of form and reflection and illusion collapses into a singular, cohesive, spiritual, <i>reality</i>.</p><p>When enlightened, mysticism is no longer this thing that is apart from the normal way of doing things, it’s the natural mode of existence. Spiritual reality supplants mundane reality.</p><p>What you perceive as an enlightened person, someone who fully recognizes the lack of distinction between perceiver and perceived, is magnified as if you were looking at it through a microscope. Ignorance, not having knowledge in your brain about what something is, does not keep you from being able to perceive <i>spiritually</i>. And what’s spiritual about something is it’s <i>essence</i>, the uniqueness that distinguishes it from everything else.</p><p>So when I look at somebody, I can generally pick up quite a lot of information just on appearances alone, because I’m not just seeing with my eyes, I’m seeing with the accumulated weight of all the mysticism I’ve done, not just in this life, but in all previous lives as well. Is it perfect? Nothing is, except God.</p>
