---
layout: post
title: Is enlightenment necessarily accompanied by darker forces?
date: 2019-04-26
---

<p>The Dark Night is a major obstacle.</p><p>The spiritual process necessarily has to operate over our <i>entire</i> being. To leave the darker, negative aspects out is to have a hollow shell of peace. The second things start getting rough, your peace will evaporate like a puff of smoke. The Dark Night forces us to confront these aspects of ourselves.</p><p>In general the Dark Night almost immediately follows the crescendo of the spiritual arc. You are on top of the world, then in the space of days or even hours, you are at the very bottom. From heaven to hell in one fell swoop.</p><p>And it doesn’t go away, you’re adrift, unmoored, until it almost seems like you’ll never get out. This is where the real spiritual work begins, the true transformation. Normal life does not give you the opportunity to engage your shit side, to make, if not friends with it, at least peace.</p><p>Once peace is re-obtained, it often feels like you’ve gone nowhere, like the entire spiritual journey you just went through was just a dream. And so it kind of was. You were asleep before but now you’ve found true awakening, the awakening that dawns after the dust has settled. You’re ripe for another journey.</p><p>Highly-spiritual people go through many of these cycles throughout their lives. Each one makes them stronger. People are often unrecognizable by their friends after a spiritual journey. The big ones become books, but the smaller ones heal and strengthen all the same. It’s folly to believe that your spiritual journey isn’t as good as someone else’s just because they might be better at writing about it than you are.</p><p>Spirituality is for you, tailored to your needs and wants.</p><p>As for enlightenment, I would really love it if people would redefine it so as to move away from the current frame of non-duality. Not everybody can reach it in their given lifetime. It confuses and terrifies. Some people might consider that a feature. I call it a bug.</p><p>Perceiving non-duality doesn’t mean you don’t go through the classic spiritual journey. It just means you go through it faster. Your Dark Nights are muted, they do not possess the immediacy that is characteristic of unenlightened Dark Nights. This is because of the lack of identification, you are incapable of suffering, not even through a Dark Night. So you feel the feelings and their suckiness, but it’s just another Tuesday.</p><p>Not everybody can reach true non-duality, but I think anyone can go through enough spiritual journeys such that their Dark Nights are almost as muted. I am comfortable calling this enlightenment.</p>
