---
layout: post
title: Can a teenage guy get an erection just from hugging a girl?
date: 2019-05-09
---

<p>Only a young lady can seriously ask this question. The answer is absolutely, yes, he can. Nature is a cruel mistress. She only wants to propagate species, not to validate your moral ideas. So pretty much any teenage guy is going to get sexually excited by pretty much any kind of physical contact with an attractive female. It’s really up to you to decide what he’s gotta do to get to the promised land of said erection pushing into your vagina.</p><p>There’s a fine line between selection and manipulation here. You can absolutely manipulate him into giving you things for vague promises that one day, he might get to plow your virgin fields. This is perhaps among the cruelest things you can do to a guy. He’s nature-bound to just accept anything you say. Many many epics have been written whose events hinge on the capricious whims of females driving men to complete abandon. Start with the <i>Iliad</i> and move outward.</p><p>Enjoy the power you have over this male but realize that it can’t last forever. If you put him off too long he’ll eventually find someone else. Or you’ll lose respect for him and you won’t care anymore. Or he’ll find his own personal agency and decide to not play your game anymore. Or he’ll finally get what he wants, in which case his mindset switches from someone who wants something desperately to someone who is trying to keep what he’s conquered. I hope you have decided before sleeping with him that he’s someone you want in your life long term. Because it’s going to get very unfun if you don’t.</p>
