---
layout: post
title: Does it ever make you mad how some people choose to remain ignorant instead of wanting to become enlightened?
date: 2019-01-23
---

<p>This is, a very Christian question. Worrying about whether your sisters and brothers are going to get saved is something only Christians do. I could give a Buddhist perspective here, but it seems more appropriate to come from the West.</p><p>No, it does not make me mad, When I was younger, it used to make me sad. But these days I’m more aware of spiritual reality and so it’s easier for me to see what’s going on on Earth, why we’re all here, and why there’s such a diverse mix of mindsets and personalities.</p><p>Earthly existence is the tip of a truly massive iceberg. Human agency is awesomely dynamic and even the model I use for it, a blend of perceptive responsiveness and spiritual surrender, which you can follow <a href="/A-few-months-back-I-started-on-a-journey-of-spiritual-awakening-and-awareness-I-have-been-working-on-meditation-mindfulness-etc-Is-enlightenment-something-that-will-only-happen-after-Im-older-Im-38-or-will-I-attain/answer/Vincent-Guidry-1">here</a>, though it explains people better than the previous model I used, that of levels of consciousness, still fails to explain a lot.</p><p>Christendom spawned perhaps the greatest mystic of all time, Emanuel Swedenborg. A YouTube channel dedicated to Swedenborg can be found <a href="https://www.youtube.com/user/offTheLeftEye" data-qt-tooltip="youtube.com">here</a> if you want to dive in. Swedenborg saw through the extant flat characterization of the spiritual world as a mere reward / punishment mechanism, that many in certain insular Protestant denominations still believe in to this day, but most of the rest of Christendom has discarded.</p><p>Instead Swedenborg painted intensely rich visions of a heaven where even hell is a kind of heaven for those who live there. You see, God loves everyone, even people whose hearts are filled with hatred, so He provides a place for even these people to be themselves after death. We just call it hell because that’s what it feels like to people who don’t have those preferences. But it’s still just heaven, as connected to God as everywhere else, even here.</p><p>These spiritual ideas I explored myself and they allowed me to take a long view on the eventual salvation and enlightenment of all people. And my explorations of the inner world of the mind and consciousness tells me there’s so much going on, unseen, in the minds of even ordinary people that I don’t feel like they’re missing out on the amazing nature of just existing simply because they don’t want to do the intense work to become aware of it.</p><p>They’re still existing, and just existing is purely amazing in and of itself. All I have to do is to look at them to apprehend their incredible, unseen-even-to-them, splendor.</p>
