---
layout: post
title: Why do some spiritually advanced people not experience a twin flame journey? Are all souls essentially dual, but not always incarnated together in the same world?
date: 2019-01-26
---

<p>Spirituality, above all, is driven by belief. You can only have spiritual experiences that you believe in, somehow. This belief may be buried deep in your psyche, for instance deep down you might believe that God really hates you instead of loves you. The spiritual experiences you have will reflect that deep belief.</p><p>In fact, the spiritual journey is a process of discovering these deeply-held beliefs, for they lie at the core of our being’s essence.</p><p>I’d never heard of twin flames in the 10+ years of spiritual exploration I’ve managed to conduct before finding Quora. When I finally looked at it, I was pretty sad. I mean, it’s not the worst spiritual paradigm in the world, treating women as possessions like in the Old Testament tops that by miles, but, like the belief that God hates you, it sets you up with terrible expectations.</p><p>The main problem I have with it is that the person you fall in love with is probably not going to be spiritual like you are. To use a spiritual paradigm to make sense of your relationship with someone that isn’t spiritual is to give of yourself that which cannot be appreciated or valued.</p><p>I think most kids who fancy their objects of fascination as twin flams are going to play out the normal teenage “love” story and learn the hard way that their partner simply doesn’t care about them and never really will.</p><p>Why is it this way? Because our brains are still maturing and we do not even know how to have a relationship yet. So we mess it up over and over again until we figure it out. The “twin flame journey” is just one more way kids are doing that.</p><p>I’m very on the fence about soulmates, I think it’s possible some people have them, but I definitely don’t think all people do. In fact, most people never learn how to truly love somebody in <i>their entire lives</i>. They find loveless marriages and cheat on them. These affairs have sexual intensity, but no real intimacy because they don’t even know what that is. If they found a soulmate, they wouldn’t know what to do with them or how to treat them.</p><p>I estimate that 90% of our parent’s generation is this way. People that have figured out how to live with each other and managed to have enough sex to procreate, but real love as we want it just isn’t there. To call them soulmates is just silly.</p>
