---
layout: post
title: Why do all girls I date reject my open relationship offer? Wouldn&#39;t an open relationship eliminate the problems like jealousy, cheating and getting stuck at only one partner? Wouldn&#39;t it make the relationship less stressful and more fun?
date: 2019-01-21
---

<p>Open relationships do not solve the jealousy problem. In fact, they generally only make the jealousy problem worse. Jealousy is buried deep in the human brain, some people have it in them to deal with jealousy in a safe and non-abusive way, but many people cannot.</p><p>The root of this disconnect is the false understanding of human intimacy as something that is fungible. If I have a relationship with a lady, I cannot just substitute another lady and have it be the same thing. Intimacy is a completely new world that is defined by the uniqueness of the two people sharing that intimate space. Thinking you can just swap out partners means you’re not really being intimate and are only pretending to be intimate so that you can get laid.</p><p>So I cannot solve the problem of my partner getting jealous of my intimacy with others by saying, “you can go be intimate with other people too!” That only makes the problem worse by cheapening the relationship you have with them.</p><p>Successful polyamorous relationships and people are that way because they put a <b>lot</b> of work into managing their emotional baggage. Not by cheapening relationships.</p><p>You cannot find success in open relationships simply by asking random people you meet whether they’re down for a fuck-anybody-you-want relationship. Most people simply won’t think of that as a relationship, just a fuck buddy.</p><p>You do it by looking extremely carefully at yourself and what keeps you from having jealousy problems in your relationships in the first place, eliminating those hangups, and then engaging more authentically with potential partners.</p><p>Figure out how to have one good relationship, don’t try to solve your problems by adding more people to the mix.</p>
