---
layout: post
title: After about a decade of meditation and spiritual experiences, I find myself suddenly void of motivation, emotion, or thought. I feel stuck in this plane, and constantly see endless possibilities unfold but find them all pointless. What is happening?
date: 2019-06-05
---

<p>You’re in a spiritual place called the Void. Dr. David Hawkins talks about the state in his many books, the bottom line is that the Void is temporary, and lifts eventually of its own accord as the being learns that the state is being identified with just like all the previous states that led up to it.</p><p>From personal experience I can say that a lot can be learned by watching closely one’s own behavior once the Void lifts. This is crucial information for continuing the journey. What identifications are seized upon the second motivation and emotion are found?</p><p>Hawkins saw the world in terms of the levels of consciousness he developed. If he were still alive, and you were able to ask him what was going on, he would conduct a calibration. What he describes as the Void is a very, very high level of consciousness, one not very often attained by humans.</p><p>I have observed that it’s the ‘map’ of consciousness that matters more than anybody’s absolute position on the scale. The absolute position of the Void on the map is at 850 on the scale from 1 to 1000. But if you look carefully at the scale there are many places where motivation, emotion, and thought are muted. For this reason I tend to ignore the very high parts of the map and stop somewhere around 6–700.</p><p>A Void state of mind can be found anywhere after level 500, the level of Love-identification. In level 600+, little voids can be experienced from time to time. From your wording, this appears to be your first experience with the state. You are also capable of verbalizing your experiences, which gives away the ‘lie’ a little bit.</p><p>So I doubt Hawkins would find you at the true level of 850. I’m resisting the urge to calibrate you myself because I have found that the greatest utility in the scale is in understanding the transitions.</p><p>And the transition out of the Void has you going through a stage of profound grief or sadness. So when emotions do kickstart again, don’t be surprised if that’s what manifests first. If you have enough agency to decide on plans of action and follow through on them, I would say try to get really invested in some movie or anime or book that tells a really sad story. It may be enough to move you forward.</p><p>If not, you’re still identifying with the Void and, honestly, it’s really just a matter of time before another shift. Identification is subtle and hard to spot, especially at the higher levels.</p>
