---
layout: post
title: What do you personally think about the law of attraction? Is there any scientific evidence that it really works?
date: 2019-02-11
---

<p>I believe that the law of attraction works, and that there will never be any scientific evidence that it works. Any attempt to ever verify it will produce results inseparable from randomness.</p><p>So why do I still believe in it? In a nutshell, there is more to the world than is accessible to empirical investigation, aka science.</p><p>Let me propose a thought experiment. Let’s say you were God, you are totally 100% omnipotent. You want to be able to grant access to your power without that power becoming totally 100% legible and accessible through empirical methods. What would you do?</p><p>If you want to allow people selective access to your power without basically turning them into full God too, then you need rules for how and why people can use your power. Somebody is going to study those rules and turn them into a spiritual law, it’s what people do.</p><p>But because the power is controlled by a rational, considering agency, and not the dumb laws of physics, it can remain completely outside of reproducible analysis if they want to. It can hide inside of probability, safe in knowing that until and unless we can see and analyze 100% of all events, i.e. that we become omniscient ourselves, we will never be able to find proof that such a dynamic is present.</p><p>All while remaining 100% available and rational and legible to people who have learned how to use it.</p><p>If you believe in a benevolent God, then you have to admit that some kind of Law of Attraction is also present. Because the alternative is a God that doesn’t really interact with the world in any way, aka non-benevolent deism.</p>
