---
layout: post
title: How can a 15 year-old male become more emotionally, mentally, and socially mature?
date: 2019-04-11
---

<p>The first step to maturity is self-awareness. You need to be able to look at yourself in a mirror and see yourself how others see you. Anybody can turn off their empathy and just act with no care given to consequence. But a mature person can act in a way that generates <b>no</b> negative consequences, for themselves and others.</p><p>The second step is to ask for help. No amount of looking at yourself in the mirror is going to get you to see things you just haven’t been alerted to the idea that you can see. So ask for feedback on the things you do from people whose opinions you care about. And if you don’t have anybody in your life whose opinions you care about, look around for someone you find interesting and get to know them.</p><p>When I was fifteen, for whatever reason I was drawn to the guy who refilled the vending machines at my school. Whenever I saw him I’d strike up a conversation with him. I was also interested in the guy running a game store so I used to spend hours at that store talking to him when he was there.</p><p>Finally, read. Spend time with interesting books and novels. I highly recommend Jane Austen. I didn’t discover her until my late twenties, but <i>Pride and Prejudice</i> is the best novel I’ve ever read. Reading transports you into the mind of a grown adult and grants you access into a rare world, the world of a talented writer.</p><p>I think that about covers it. Your brain is still maturing, and it doesn’t finish developing until early thirties, so there’s only so far you can go. But that’s not really that big of a deal. Everyone knows that young adults are just going to be immature in some ways.</p><p>Oh, and if you want to be really smart, stay away from drugs and alcohol, drugs forever, hold off on alcohol for as long as you can. An alcohol problem can really hurt your ability to relate with others.</p>
